The Project Gutenberg EBook of The S. P. Mystery, by Harriet Pyne Grove

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The S. P. Mystery

Author: Harriet Pyne Grove

Release Date: June 24, 2017 [EBook #54971]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE S. P. MYSTERY ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: Jean, whisking back from the truck, almost ran into
Greta. (Page 190)]




  The S. P. Mystery

  By HARRIET PYNE GROVE

  [Illustration]

  THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
      Akron, Ohio      New York




  Copyright MCMXXX
  THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
  The S. P. Mystery


  _Made in the United States of America_




CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                                 PAGE

   1. HOW IT ALL STARTED                     3

   2. SEVEN S. P.’S                         15

   3. SHAMROCKS                             26

   4. STEALTHY PROWLERS                     37

   5. THE WITCHING WITCHES                  48

   6. A NEW SORT OF PARTY                   57

   7. THE BLACK WIZARDS’ DILEMMA            80

   8. THE ATTIC PARTY                       97

   9. MORE IDEAS AND A WIZARD MYSTERY      118

  10. A LONELY GIRL                        127

  11. THOSE “UNINTERESTED” PARENTS         146

  12. THE “GRAND” SURPRISE                 158

  13. THE S. P.’S DISCOVER GRETA           178

  14. LITTLE ADVENTURES OF CAMP LIFE       192

  15. MOLLY’S ADVENTURE                    203

  16. SANS PEUR                            210

  17. THE MYSTERIES DISCLOSED              239




THE S. P. MYSTERY




CHAPTER I

HOW IT ALL STARTED


Jean Gordon rushed into the house, her face all aglow. There was some
fire within which made her eyes bright and the sharp wind, which came
from lakes not too far away, gave her rosy cheeks and nipped her nose
as well.

Without stopping in the hall to take off her pretty red coat or the
close little hat that left little but eyes, nose and mouth to be seen,
she opened the door into the dining-room, from which the sound of her
mother’s machine could be heard.

“O Mother! May I have the room in the attic for a club room?”

Jean had opened this door a little more decorously and now she closed
it more softly than she had opened and closed the front door, whose
bang her mother must have heard. With an amused smile Mrs. Gordon
turned from her work. “Is this my dear hurricane, home from school?”

“It is,” laughed Jean. “Please excuse the front door, Mother. It
slipped out of my hand. And I suppose I should not have shouted right
out. Good afternoon, fair lady!” A deep courtesy was made in grave
exaggeration before Jean ran to her mother and deposited a quick kiss
upon her cheek.

“Your apology is accepted, Miss Gordon,” said Jean’s mother, with a pat
upon the cold hand which Jean laid upon her chair. “Now, what is it
that you want?”

“The attic room for a club,--please, Mother!”

“It is cold up there,” returned Mrs. Gordon, starting to baste the hem
of a blouse which she was making for Jean.

“Oh, that is going to be precious!” exclaimed Jean, stopping to look at
the garment. “I’ll be all fixed for school now. I don’t see what makes
me get so shabby.”

“Nor do I,” said Mrs. Gordon with a comical look. “But clothes will
wear out.”

Jean sat on the arm of her mother’s chair to continue the original
subject. “There’s a radiator there, isn’t there, Mother? Couldn’t the
heat be turned on?”

“I suppose so; but that one always turned hard, and it has not been
used for a long time. But why the pressing need of a club room and who
will clean it?”

Jean laughed. “Ay, there’s the _rub_! I hope you appreciate my smart
remark, Mother. But March is almost time for house-cleaning, isn’t it?
Besides, the club members will fix up the room. I promise not to bother
you about it. There isn’t much in it. Why couldn’t we have the old
chairs that are in the rest of the attic?”

“You could. You _may_. Tell me about the club. This is something new,
isn’t it?”

“Rather; but if you don’t mind, Mother, I’ll tell you more about it
tonight. There is a reason why I have to call up the girls _right
away_!”

“Run along, then.” Mrs. Gordon looked after her daughter with a twinkle
in the brown eyes that were so much like Jean’s. What new scheme did
those children have now?

Jean pulled off her hat and hung it upon the hall rack, but without
removing her coat she sat down at the little table near to telephone.

“No, Central, it’s one--O--two--O, please,--yes, X.”

A long pause made Jean tap her feet impatiently while she waited. Why
didn’t Central ring again? But here came the “hello” Jean wanted.
“Hello, Molly. I’m glad that’s you. Can you call up Phoebe and Bess
and Fran for me and all of you come right over? There’s something I
have to see you about right away. It’s terribly important and I want
to get everybody here the first minute possible, or I wouldn’t ask you
to telephone. I’ve just _got_ to see you before the party tonight! Oh,
good! Thank you _so_ much. Tell them there’s a mystery and that’ll
bring ’em. I’m going to get Nan over and start making fudge. Wasn’t it
_grand_ that we got out of school so early?”

Molly evidently agreed that it was “grand,” and in a moment the
receiver was hung up, Jean hanging up her coat in the interval between
calls.

Again Jean was sitting at the small table. “That you, Nan? Since I saw
you something has happened and if you want your old Jean vindicated,
as ’twere, come on over and help me out. Just walk right in, because
I’ll probably be telephoning, or may be, anyhow. We’ll make some fudge
before the girls get here. What? Oh, I’ll ‘splain’ when you get here.
I’ve a great scheme,--only maybe you won’t like it, of course.”

Nan must have asserted her interest in Jean’s schemes, for Jean
turned from the telephone with a dimple in one cheek fully evident and
a funny quirk in her smile. Nan was her chum in chief, and a girl of
some originality. What Jean could not think of, Nan proposed. Between
them had some interesting experiences, though usually within the bounds
imposed by their very sensible parents.

Next, a number had to be looked up. “I do hate to call the Dudley’s,”
Jean was thinking. She stood a moment, thinking, then went on a run
through the hall and into the kitchen, neat and clean and orderly.
Jean made a dash for the aluminum sauce-pan in which she always made
her fudge. Another dash, and she had measured out the sugar, put a cup
under the faucet for water, set out another pan, to receive the fudge
when done, a bottle of flavoring extract and a big spoon. Then she
looked for milk and butter, changing her mind a time or two about the
ingredients.

While Jean was in the midst of these hurried proceedings, the kitchen
door opened after a short rap and a girl with a blue coat over her head
and shoulders came in, though stopping in the door to take off her
rubbers. “My, it’s muddy in your back yard, Jean,” said she. “I just
took a notion to come over this way, since you said fudge. Why aren’t
you telephoning?”

The enveloping coat came off as Nan Standish talked, revealing a girl
of about Jean’s height, the usual height of girls about fifteen. Nan’s
clear eyes were blue and her hair fluffy and yellow. She was as light
on her feet as Jean and came dancing over to where Jean stood. “Here,
just skeedoodle, Jean Gordon. I’ll start this, while you do whatever
else you want to do. I’m dying to know what it’s all about.”

“I’ve only got one more place to telephone, Nan. I’ve decided to use
milk instead of water, since there seems to be plenty. So put in one
cup to the three cups of sugar, already measured. See? I’ll be back in
a minute and tell you all about it, the plan, I mean, not the fudge.”

“Yes, I’ve made fudge with you before. Trot along.”

Jean trotted. “Is this Mrs. Dudley?” she asked, when she had the proper
number. “This is Jean Gordon. Would it be too much trouble to ask Leigh
to come to the telephone?”

Jean’s tone was very formal now. She did not know Mrs. Dudley very
well, and she stood just a little in awe of the Dudley formality as
expressed in Leigh. But Phoebe would not enjoy a club without Leigh,
and Leigh was a girl that any club would be glad to have. To do without
Phoebe, too, was not to be thought of!

It was plainly not too much trouble to notify Leigh, for presently she
came to talk with Jean. “A little meeting of a few girls, Jean,--to
do something about something? That’s very clear!” Leigh’s low laugh
came over the wire. “Why the mystery? Yes, of course, I’ll come, and
stop for Phoebe, too. Oh, it may be fifteen minutes. I’ll have to tell
Mother and get my wraps. I’m terribly curious.”

“Wasn’t that nice, Nan?” asked Jean, in the kitchen again. “Phoebe told
me yesterday that Leigh is just shy, being new here this year, you
know, and not knowing any of the girls before.”

“We-ell,” Nan replied, with a spoonful of the hot fudge to try it in
a glass of cold water, “I do think that the Dudleys think pretty well
of themselves, with that big place and all,--but I suppose, for that
matter, all of our families do, and Leigh--gracious, Jean, this fudge
is ready to come off! Is that the pan of cold water to set this in?”

The fudge cooling before being beaten, our two girls linked arms and
ran upstairs to Jean’s room, where with many giggles Jean imparted her
news to her friend. “Do you think it was so awful, Nan?” she asked. “I
feel dreadfully guilty, yet I just did it on the spur of the moment and
if you girls only do it, it will be a lot of fun.”

“Of course it will. I’m for it, Jean. Why haven’t we done it before?”

“But how about the name? Do you suppose--?”

“Oh, that will be all right. If I were you I’d tell them all about
it. What is a secret society without a secret to keep? Jimmy has been
awfully smart about his pin, and if we _could_ keep it quiet about our
plans--”

“Especially as we haven’t any,” laughed Jean.

“Yes, but they need not know that. Oh, there’s the doorbell! The girls
are coming. I’ll slip down the back stairs and beat that fudge while
you let them all in. But don’t do anything till I get there,--_please_!”

“Not a word, Nan. It shall remain a mystery till you come in. But don’t
you want some help beating that fudge?”

“Not _necessarily_, Jean, but send anybody out you like.”

By this time Jean was at the foot of the front stairs to open the door,
and Nan’s quick feet were pattering down the uncarpeted back stairs to
the kitchen. The Gordon home was almost like her own.

The last girl to be reached by telephone was the first to arrive.
Leigh Dudley and Phoebe Wood stood at the Gordon door, giving bright
greetings to Jean’s welcoming words. “Come right in,” she cordially
urged. “Isn’t this a March wind, though?”

Leigh was taller than Jean, with a vivid color, almost black hair
and dark blue eyes. She slipped out of a handsome fur coat, which
Jean took from her and put upon a hanger. Phoebe, little and dark and
quick, waited upon herself. A wood fire was burning in the living room
fireplace and to this the girls betook themselves, warming cold hands.

As Leigh rubbed her hands together in front of the blaze, she said,
“I thought at first that you wanted us for something about the party.
Phoebe thought it a birthday party. Do you suppose we ought to give a
present?”

“No,” replied Jean. “I know that it is not a birthday celebration.
Excuse me,--there come Molly with Bess and Fran. Oh, look at Fran’s new
hat. Isn’t it _darling_?”

With this Jean flew to the hall again, while Leigh and Phoebe looked
out of the window to behold the “darling” hat, a very cocky felt
affair. Only girls could have told any difference in the style from
those of the other girls. “Isn’t it a shame that Fran had to get a new
hat this late in the winter?” asked Phoebe.

“Why did she? They’re wearing straw hats now in some places.”

“Why, don’t you know, on the bob-sled last night Fran’s hat got knocked
off and Jimmy Standish stepped right into it and through it! Fran
managed to fix it up enough to wear to school this morning. Then at
noon Fran went and got a wonderful bargain because it is so late.”

More raw breezes entered with the newcomers, who talked about how the
snow had turned to slush and how raw the wind was and how Fran would
have her hat for “next fall” if the styles didn’t change. Then Nan came
in with a plate of fudge, divided into squares and still hot. “Your
mother came out and gave me the plate, Jean,” said she.

The girls ate fudge and toasted their toes by the fire. Molly French
was a plump, happy looking girl with a way of looking at one and
considering a moment before she spoke. “Molly always thinks twice
before she speaks,” said the girls sometimes. But then Molly was “the
preacher’s” daughter.

Frances Lockhart was as tall as Leigh and very thin. But her features
were good and her humor so jolly that even if her clothes usually hung
on her, as she herself declared, “Fran” was very popular in her class
at school, as well as with other young friends. Bess or Elizabeth Crane
had grown up “next door” to Frances, as Nan and Jean had lived. Now
both girls were united in an admiration and friendship that bound them
to the capable and friendly Molly, whose father was their minister.
There was nothing particularly remarkable about the appearance of
Bess. Brown hair, hazel eyes, a nose inclined to turn up a trifle and
a slight figure as graceful as Fran’s was awkward, were what one would
observe as Bess entered the room.

Like so many butterflies settling after uncertain movements, Jean’s
guests turned from the closer proximity to the fire and took seats.
Four of them bounced on the cushion-covered springs of the big
davenport that was placed at an angle where the cozy warmth of the
fire reached them. Leigh sank into a big over-stuffed chair. Nan
perched on its arm, as she happened to be near with the plate of fudge,
just passed again. Jean, now thinking thoughts of new presidents or
promoters of clubs, stood with her hand on one end of the mantel and
surveyed the girls with a smile half embarrassed.

“What’s the great excitement, Jean?” asked practical Molly, tossing
back a flaxen bob and leaning forward on the davenport, with her hands
around one knee. “What scheme have you and Nan gotten up now?”

Blue eyes and brown eyes exchanged an amused look, though Jean grew
rather sober, while Nan spoke up. “I haven’t a thing to do with this
one, except to stand by Jean. She’ll explain.”

“All right. Explain and satisfy our curiosity, Jean, or else forever
after hold your peace!”

“There must have been a wedding at the parsonage, girls,” suggested
Fran. “Were you a witness, Molly?”

“Not this time. Go on, Jean, and tell. I have to get home early and
help get supper.”

“All right, Molly. I’m just thinking it out. This is a ‘S. O. S.’ call
girls, and if you don’t help me out, I’m disgraced for life, I guess.”

“It is _very_ serious,” remarked Nan, with mock soberness and an air
as important as she could manage while still holding the fudge plate,
sadly depleted.




CHAPTER II

SEVEN S. P.’S


Jean now drew up a straight chair and sat down, facing the others from
the other corner of the mantel. Then she began, soberly at first, but
frequently displaying her pretty dimple in smiles, chuckles and even
grins as her story proceeded.

“It’s this way, girls. We just--simply--have to have a club, and I
don’t mean an ordinary club or society, but something different, a
_secret_ club!”

“Sakes!” exclaimed Molly, “something like Grace’s sorority at college?”

“No. That wouldn’t be any fun for us. Well, perhaps. But have you
noticed how mysterious some of the boys have been lately?”

Several girls said that they had not seen anything unusual. Leigh
remarked that she never paid any attention to what they did, except at
parties. But Molly remembered that when they were skating recently “a
knot of the boys” drew together, talking about something and that when
she and Bess happened to skate near them, to avoid a rough place in the
ice, “the bunch” broke up and skated apart.

“How about Jimmy, Nan?” asked Molly.

“He’s in it, but the first I noticed was his new pin, this morning,
though he may have been wearing it before, out of sight. When I asked
him about it, he said, ‘Oh nothing. Bottle up your curiosity, Nan’!”

This called forth various comments on brothers and whether the boys’
club was a senior fraternity or not. Jean waited till the opportunity
came.

“No, it can’t be a real fraternity,” said she, “for they aren’t
allowed. Besides Billy Baxter belongs and he’s only a sophomore, like
us. Nobody wants to know, of course, just what boys do; but this time
they have gotten up some sort of a secret society and feel so snippy
about it that we just ought to do something, too.”

“And be called ‘copy-cats’,” Nan suggested.

“Yes, that’s so,” acknowledged Jean. “But just wait a minute. Perhaps
you won’t think that what I did was so terrible, then; for I thought of
that, too. Billy, you know, comes home my way from school, and tonight
he whistled and called ‘Je-an,’ and caught up with me. Well, in a
minute I knew it wasn’t for anything else than to show me his new pin
and crow over us girls a little. I didn’t know about Jimmy, of course,
and there must be several sophomores in it, I’m sure. We’ll have to
find out how big a crowd belongs.” A wide grin now almost obscured the
dimple in Jean’s cheek.

“Girls, they call themselves ‘The Black Wizards’ and their pin is a
most terrible lookin’ snake in a queer W! Billy was full of it, and
by a few little innocent questions I got a lot of news! I wasn’t
pretending either, when I told him that I was awfully interested,
and that it must be fine and lots of fun. I imagine that they must
have made it up to wear their pins,--they’d just come,--and not keep
_everything_ to themselves any longer.

“So I said, ‘Why isn’t that _grand_,--just like us girls, only, only we
haven’t such a scary sign as a snake, and our pins haven’t come yet!’”
With this Jean looked around with an expression like that of the cat
after it had eaten the canary.

“Oh, you whopper-teller!” cried Molly. “And did you say it after he
told you they wouldn’t keep the fact of their having a club secret any
longer?”

“Oh, no! I put that in just now. He just said that the boys had a new
club, and told me the name and how they had lots of great plans and
things like that. What I said wasn’t exactly untrue, for I formed a
club of one member then and there, and I felt pretty sure that Nan
would help me out, so I could say ‘girls,’--and Billy was gloating so!

“There isn’t a thing in this little town like Girl Scouts or Camp Fire
Girls or anything, and nobody to start them. Don’t _you_ think that we
ought to have something besides the school societies and the church
things, Molly?”

Molly gave Jean a look of amusement. “It would be fun,” she answered.

“It’s a jolly idea,” said Fran decisively. “Go on, Jean. What else did
you and Billy say?”

“Of course Billy wouldn’t believe me. ‘You’re just kidding,’ he said.
‘But if we get up a secret club, of _course_ you _girls_ would have to
have one, too! What’s the name of yours, if you _have_ one?’ I could
see that he was _real suspicious_, and I didn’t blame him. It did
_look_ suspicious!”

Nan almost fell off the arm of Leigh’s chair at this, and the fudge
plate tilted precariously. “I should think it did!” she cried.

While the girls laughed, Jean dimpled and rose to take the fudge plate
from Nan, passing it around once more. Placing the plate upon the
mantel, she continued:

“‘It isn’t best to tell our name yet,’ I said to Billy. ‘It’s sort of
secret, too’.”

“I should say so!” gasped Leigh.

“Sh-sh,” said Phoebe. “Let Jean tell it.”

“Billy said much the same thing, Leigh,” laughed Jean. “He said, ‘_Yes_
it is!--’cause you haven’t any!’

“‘I’ll tell you the initials,’ I said,--thinking awfully fast, girls!
But I couldn’t seem to think of a thing but ‘Busy Bees’ or ‘Happy
Hearts’ or something like that. Just then we passed a sign that said
‘S. P. Smith,’ so I tossed my head a little and said, ‘They’re S. P.
What do you think of that, now?’ I was getting in deeper and deeper,
you see.”

“‘H’m,’ he said, ‘what are you going to do?’

“‘That,’ I said, ‘is sort of a secret, too. You never heard of a secret
society that told everything, did you? We may tell our name later,
though.’

“‘It won’t be long,’ Billy said.

“‘Now isn’t that mean of you?’ I asked.” Jean lifted her chin and
looked sidewise at Leigh as she had doubtless scanned Billy.

“He asked me where our club met and I said, ‘Most anywhere yet, but
headquarters is at our house.’ Billy didn’t say anything for a
minute. Billy is terribly smart, you know, and it looked fishy to
him,--naturally! Still, some of us have been meeting occasionally, you
know.

“Then he said, ‘Well, all I have to say is that it’s awfully funny we
never heard anything of it before this. Girls can’t keep a secret!’”

“‘Oh, _can’t_ we?’ I asked. Then Billy looked at me and laughed, and
I laughed, and he broke a peanut chocolate bar into two pieces and
gave me the biggest,--bigger, I mean; so he wasn’t mad, of course. But
by this time Danny Pierce was coming along on the other side of the
street, and looked over with a grin,--and that finished Billy. You know
how he feels about being seen with a girl! So he never said goodbye or
anything but bolted across to Danny. I’m sure he’ll tell Danny about
our club, so you see what I’ve gotten us into. But there’s one thing
that will save you, if you don’t want to come to my rescue,--Billy
didn’t ask me who belonged.

“I rushed home and asked Mother if I could have the finished room in
the attic for a club room and that is all right. Now will any of you
stand by me, or do I have to be a club all by myself?”

“You forget me, Jean,” Nan reminded her. “I promised to be a S. P. S.
P. forever!”

Molly jumped to her feet. “All in favor of being an S. P. stand up!”

Every girl responded and Leigh, of whom Jean had been most in doubt,
laughingly announced that she wouldn’t miss it for anything. “Let’s
have _sweet_ pins,” she added. “A snake would be dreadful,--Ugh!”

“No, really, Leigh, their pins are pretty,” said Nan, “gold with a
little black enamel, and Jim said that when they could afford it they
might have rubies for the snakes’ eyes. That was when I looked at his
pin.”

“The ‘Black Wizards!’ Wow!” exclaimed Bess. “Let’s elect Jean
president, and Nan secretary, and Leigh would make a good treasurer, as
her father’s president of the bank now. I’m a nominating committee!”

The girls agreed that Bess’s suggestions were good. Bess, Fran and
Phoebe were appointed a committee on what the club should do, and every
one was to consider herself a committee to determine what S. P. should
represent. “S. could stand for Sophomore,” Molly suggested. Molly had
begged off from any office, as she had so many church organizations to
help.

“Sophomore is too common, Molly,” said Phoebe. “There are exactly seven
of us, too, and seven is a lucky number. But I think that we can tell
better after we think up what would be fun to do. Could we see the
attic, Jean?”

“Yes. I’ll ask Mother, though, first. And don’t you think that we are
enough right now, or would you rather ask more girls at once?”

For several minutes the girls talked that matter over, finally
concluding that for the present, though they had many other friends,
it would be better to keep the number as it stood. The sophomore class
was not large. If they wanted to mix the group, as the boys were doing,
there would be time enough. As Jean well knew, these were the leading
girls of her class.

She slipped out to consult her mother, who gave permission at once for
the girls to visit the attic and “view the landscape o’er,” as Molly
said. Mrs. Gordon came into the living room to meet the girls and
advised them to wear their coats into the cold regions and to look out
for dust. “We do not dust the attic every day,” she added, with a smile
like Jean’s.

The seven S. P.’s accordingly trooped up the two flights of stairs
to the attic, or third floor. As they rounded the post at the top of
an enclosed stairway, they found themselves in a large space dimly
lighted by one window at the head of the stairs. The whole attic, to
the farthermost corners, stretched before them. Dusty, shrouded shapes
stood here and there. A great chimney went up through the middle,
showing some of the sooty dust that had also sprinkled down from
somewhere upon draped furniture or old trunks. Jean warned the girls
again about dust, but no one cared.

At the front of this third floor a gable and a room of good height had
been finished, separated by partitions and a door from the rest of
the “attic.” The door was not far from the stairs and Jean explained
that her father intended to make a hall there some day, shutting off
the unfinished part by another partition and door. “But there’s no use
in doing it, Mother says, for we’ll never need to use this room, and
that’s why it will be just the thing for us. I suppose we can use the
whole attic if we want to. We could have a lovely party up here some
day. And I never even thought of it before!”

“Before your necessity became the ‘mother of invention,’ Jean.”

“That’s so, and ‘one thing leads to another’!”

Keen young eyes surveyed the proposed club room and found
possibilities. A covered couch ran along one wall. Several good
pieces of furniture stood about. The room was about fifteen feet
in one direction, though it would have been hard to give its actual
dimensions, so broken up was it into nooks and corners. Jean threw open
the door of an immense closet and explained that the house had once
been a big country house and that this room had been occupied by two
maids.

“It is the very place, Jean!” cried cheery Fran. “How soon can we fix
it up? I have a lot of ideas already!”

“Mother will have to see if the heat will turn on, though there is a
place for a little stove, you see, if the furnace won’t heat us. I’ll
let you know; but we ought to have another meeting soon.”

“Come to our house Saturday, girls,” Leigh invited. “We haven’t
a lovely attic like this, but we can meet in my big room all to
ourselves.”

This was a good suggestion. Leigh was warming up, the girls thought,
and Phoebe knew that it was the opportunity Leigh wanted to do
something for them without appearing to thrust herself into their
affairs, a thing about which she was sensitive. A club would be just
the thing for Leigh.

Nan suggested that it would be a good thing to make no reference to S.
P. affairs, or appear to be concerned about anything private, to “show
Billy that girls could have something going on without their making a
great fuss about it.”

Fran took a little exception to this. “Don’t you think that once or
twice we ought to be saying something and then stop suddenly till we
get past some of the boys?” she asked.

“Fran, if you will do that, I’ll be--a--vindicated, and your friend
forever! Thanks muchly, girls, for going into this! Now do rack your
brains to think of a good S. P. name, even if we should want to change
it after a while.”

“Don’t worry, Jean. S. P. can mean something, I’m sure. We’ll put on
our thinking caps till Saturday and longer if necessary. Still, Jean,
if we can’t think of anything, nobody will know the difference!” And
this was Leigh Dudley, over inviting whom Jean had hesitated, not sure
that Leigh would be at all interested!




CHAPTER III

SHAMROCKS


The party that night was given by one of the senior girls and was quite
general. Nearly all of the girls in the small high school were there
and many of the boys, with some who had been graduated or stopped to go
to work in some store or business.

The town was small. Originally a community formed in a farming district
not far from Lake Michigan, it was populated by people who were
intelligent and of good standing. But a big railroad had diverted its
main line from the town and a larger town, with manufacturing interests
had absorbed such growth as this village might have had. The school was
good, but small.

As Jean had said, there was no organization for girls outside of the
school literary clubs and the church societies. These were excellent
in their lines, but girls bubbling over with activity wanted something
else. So did the boys and the “Black Wizards” were created.

The party proved to be an advance St. Patrick’s Day celebration. The
house was appropriately decorated and one of the senior girls stood at
the foot of the stairs to pin on each girl and boy, as they came from
leaving wraps in the respective rooms, a bright green shamrock. A March
wind blustered outside, but it was bright and warm within.

“I’d forgotten that tomorrow is St. Patrick’s Day,” said Jean to Nan,
with whom she had come. Jimmy had gotten to the stage when he escorted
one of the girls to the party. Most of the younger ones let the girls
come by themselves, yet took them home. But Jimmy Standish was more or
less devoted now to a very pretty senior, Clare Miller, and permitted
Nan to make any arrangements she liked about being escorted to this or
any other party. Sisters were of secondary importance, as Nan told Jean.

“I’d have worn my green frock, if I’d known,” replied Nan, “but this
blue one is more becoming. I love your orchid, Jean.”

Jean adjusted her bracelet and repinned her shamrock a little
self-consciously, for Billy Baxter was making straight for her and some
one of the girls drew Nan away at that moment. “Hello, S. P.,” said
Billy.

“Oh, Billy, please,” said Jean, putting her finger to her lips. “I told
you that in confidence. We’re not a bit ready to have that get around!”

Billy grinned, and Jean was surprised to see that he was really
pleased, probably over knowing something that the other boys had not
been told. “I hope you didn’t tell Danny Pierce what I said,” Jean
continued.

“No, I didn’t,” returned Billy, glad that an accident had saved
him from imparting the news which he would have had no hesitation
in passing on. Jean hadn’t told him not to tell. But Danny had had
something to tell Billy; then they had met some other Black Wizards
with great schemes afoot. “_I_ told _you_ things I oughtn’t to’ve,”
said Billy, “so we’re even. But we’re all wearing our pins right out
to-night, you see. And say, Jean, may I see you home to-night after
it’s over?”

“Yes, Billy, of course. But please don’t say S. P. till I give you
leave.”

“All right. But who belong, Jean?”

“Sh-sh! I’ll tell you to-morrow if I see you when no one’s around.”

“All right,” said Billy again. “Don’t you kind of like our pins, Jean?”

“They’re stunning, Billy--even if I am scared of snakes; and I think
that ‘Black Wizards’ is an awfully cute name. I suppose you have some
terrible initiation, don’t you?”

“Yes. We have _some doings_ at our meetings, believe _me_, Jean.”

At that point Jean and Billy were summoned to take part in a game that
was being started and Jean did not have any conversation with him for
some time. Yet Nan told her that he “hovered” around, and one of the
senior boys tried to tease her by remarking that Billy Baxter had
gotten over his dislike for girls. “Is that so?” she answered without
confusion, recalling that the senior had passed her and Billy as they
had been walking along together that afternoon.

But Jean was wondering how, now that Billy was pledged to silence,
some knowledge of the S. P.’s could “leak out”; for there would be no
fun unless the boys did know. She had not thought of that when she was
talking to Billy this time. But perhaps some of the other girls were
managing better than she had done.

She threw herself into the games, however, enjoying everything, as Jean
always did, and temporarily forgetting both Black Wizards and S. P.’s.
The scene was gay with the decorations, the light dresses of the girls
and the movement of the games. Once, when Jean was waiting with others
for a charade to be begun, she stood by Fran and whispered the state of
things to her.

“Don’t worry. I’ll fix it,” said Fran with a twinkle.

When the time came for the refreshments, which were more elaborate on
this occasion than usual at the parties Jean had attended, she saw that
Fran was next to one of the boys who wore the Black Wizard pin. She
herself had found her pretty place card between Billy and Danny. Bess
was on the other side of Danny, and once she heard him exclaim, “Is
that so? What do you call it?” and she knew that Fran had passed the
word on to Bess.

It was a shame, though, to have started it the way she had. What was
it about “tangled webs” when first we “practice to deceive”? But there
were to be no fibs. When they were looking at the attic room, it had
been decided that if they were asked how long since their club had been
started they would answer “Not very long.” More searching questions
need not be answered at all, and presently the club would be taken as
a matter of course. Such thoughts as these ran through Jean’s mind and
she ate her green salad, nibbled the green frosting on her cake or
took a spoonful of green and white brick ice-cream.

As a rule Jean acted on impulse first in ordinary affairs; but most of
her impulses had been so far based on common sense she had thought.
Anyhow, a club would be fun.

There were more games after the late refreshments, for the seniors were
running this party. Jean was both tired and sleepy, though happy, when
Billy took her through the sloppy streets to her home. “Say, Jean, I
noticed that you had lost your shamrock in the games,” said Billy, as
they stepped upon the porch. “I want you to take mine.” With this he
threw open his overcoat and unpinned the precious snake pin, for the
Black Wizards had put their badges upon the shamrocks to make them more
prominent, a little while after arrival.

“You may as well pin it on with this, too,” he added. “You can give it
to me in the morning. Goodnight, Jean.”

“Goodnight, Billy,” returned Jean, astonished to find both shamrock and
pin in her hand. “Thanks.” But Billy was half way out of the yard by
that time.

A sleepy mother was waiting up for her, but Jean shut her hand upon
shamrock and pin. That was a crazy thing for Billy to do! “Yes,
Mother, we had a lovely time. Billy Baxter brought me home, and Danny
Pierce took Nan. Most everybody was there. It was a St. Patrick’s Day
party and they had the best refreshments and everything, a regular
supper. Jimmy took Clare and the seniors ran things. I’ll tell you
all about it to-morrow. There were some of the older boys and girls
not in school, too. Oh, there must have been forty or fifty there, I
think,--maybe not so many. And Mother, that was an S. P. meeting here
yesterday and I’m so delighted that we can have the attic. Please don’t
say anything about it.”

“I usually know more about a matter before I talk about it, daughter,”
said Mrs. Gordon. “Get to bed as soon as possible, child. It is such a
pity to have a party in the middle of the week. You will be too sleepy
to study to-morrow.”

Jean was almost too sleepy to get up the next morning, but she did not
forget to pin on the shamrock which Billy had given her. She certainly
owed him that little attention. The snake pin she had under her coat
ready, and when she passed Billy’s house on the way to school she found
that he was waiting for her, as she shrewdly judged, to receive the pin
before its absence should be noted by other Black Wizards.

“I didn’t have sense enough to think that you couldn’t wear the
shamrock that late last night,” Billy explained, rather sheepishly.
“Some day we’re going to give a party and badge the girls we invite
with our pins for the evening. Jimmy Standish said that last night and
I was thinking of it as we went home.”

“Oh, that was all right, Billy. It was great fun to have it and I’m
wearing the shamrock, you see, on my coat. I see Nan coming now and
I’ll just stroll back to meet her, I think. There goes Danny. Do ask
him if Bess told him anything startling last night. I thought I heard
her say ‘S. P.’”

So Jean’s handling of the situation saved her from walking to
school with Billy and probably, as she thought, saved him from some
embarrassment. It would also give Billy a chance to say to Danny that
he “knew it already,” if, as she thought, Bess had told. Jean had not
exactly planned it, but instinctively she felt a situation when it
occurred.

The seven S. P.’s felt a little undercurrent all day, but they avoided
being together except as they would usually meet, in twos or threes.
Once or twice conversation, not upon the S. P.’s at all, was suddenly
stopped, as they had planned.

Jean had really forgotten about having promised to tell Billy about who
belonged to the club, till after school that afternoon Billy caught
up with her before she had left the school grounds and took her books
as Jimmy had just taken Clare’s in front of them. He copied Jimmy’s
nonchalant air and said, “Excuse me, Nan,--I’ve got to see Jean about
something.”

Bess was just coming up behind them and caught Nan’s arm, drawing her
aside as Billy and Jean walked on. Well, thought Jean, maybe Billy
hadn’t liked it that she hadn’t walked to school with him that morning.

But Billy made no reference to that. “Jean, it’s all over school about
your club. The other girls must have let it out.” So Billy began in a
low voice. “Before I said a word to Danny he said, ‘So the girls have
got a secret society, too; I heard last night.’

“‘What did you hear?’ I asked. ‘Oh,’ he said, ‘they’ve started
something and all Bess would tell me was the initials of their name,
the S. P.’s, and I suppose it stands for Sweet Pickles or Sour Grapes
or something like that.’

“I told him, of course, that I had heard about it before, and that he’d
better go slow on ‘Sour Grapes,’ because they were mighty nice girls
all right. But do tell me who they are, so I’ll not be so ignorant the
next time.”

Jean laughed heartily. “I don’t mind a bit. That was cute of Danny.
Why it’s Fran and Bess and Molly, Phoebe and Leigh, and of course Nan
and I are in it. There are exactly seven of us now, though it might be
possible that we’d take in some more girls later on. I sort of think we
ought to, when we carry out one of the things I’ve been thinking of.
I’m president, Billy, and that’s everything I can tell you.”

“I thought you would be, Jean,” said admiring Billy. “You are great at
getting up things.”

“Not half so good at it as Molly, or Nan either, for that matter.”

“That will do for you to say, Jean. Come on, Jimmy’s taking Clare into
the delicatessen. Let’s go, too.”

Jean wondered what was getting into Billy, Billy the shy with girls. He
was “certainly putting coals of fire on her head,” though he did not
know it. But she had known Billy Baxter all her life and it seemed very
natural to sit at the little table and sip a chocolate soda. They left
the subject of secret societies and talked about the school teams, the
prospect for baseball, the plans for the new gym, how the old town
might wake up after a while, and who had a new car. Jimmy Standish
slapped Billy on the shoulder as he passed him, going out with Clare,
and said, “Hello, Jean, how are the Seven Peaches to-day?”

“I can’t imagine what you mean,” grinned Jean, “but that’s a nice
name.”




CHAPTER IV

STEALTHY PROWLERS


It happens sometimes that a sudden decision has far-reaching
consequences for good or evil. On the other hand, an organization
started upon an impulse and with no particular purpose might easily
die an early death, with no special consequences. It was probably due
to the character of these girls that their little club, so impulsively
formed, should bring them some happy adventures, as well as some odd
ones, with a mystery of which they could have no idea now.

There were two points about which the girls were thinking: what they
should do, and what the S. P. should mean. Naturally it should have
some connection with the purpose of the club, provided it was to have
any. It was queer, Jean said, how many things S. P. could mean. Who
would have thought of it? The boys missed no opportunity to tease them
by concocting different combinations. Other girls asked Jean or Nan
what was going on and they explained, “It is just a simple little club
that we are beginning to work on a little, and we are not telling
much, about it yet. No, it isn’t a sorority and won’t be like one.”

“I’ve made _more explanations_, Jean,” said Molly, when they all met on
Saturday at the Dudley place, “and when there isn’t anything much to
explain, what can a body do? I do hope nobody feels left out!”

“You couldn’t help that, Molly, if any one wanted to feel that way,
about any club. It seems all right to me to have one and we’re not
going to act any different from before. You’re an old dear, Molly, and
you are used to the church societies, where it’s come one come all.”

“They are the best, then.”

“Of course they’re the best. As Dad says sometimes, ‘You can’t
start an argument with me on that, Jean.’ The thing is--let’s
see--‘self-evident’.”

But Molly enjoyed the fun as much as any of the rest and it began at
once. Saturday’s meeting at the Dudley home was like another party,
Fran said. Jean, who had felt so shy with Mrs. Dudley, was made to feel
at home by her cordial way of meeting the girls.

“So you are the young lady who started this mysterious club, are you?”
she asked. “Leigh will not confide the name, only the initials. If
there is anything that I can do to help the fun along, let me know,
Madam President!”

The bit of formality about Mrs. Dudley made her only the more
“fascinating,” Jean confided to Nan later on; but the girls were taken
at once to Leigh’s own room, where they exclaimed in little oh’s and
ah’s over her pretty arrangements. “Papa let me plan it,” said Leigh,
pleased that the girls liked her room. “When he built the house he told
Mamma and me that we might as well have just exactly what we had always
wanted. So as I had wanted certain things, I planned it out. Do you
like my long window-seat?”

“It’s like a real living room, Leigh,” said Nan, “with your fireplace
and mantel, and your built-in bookcases. I love the _chaise longue_!
Here is the beautiful movie heroine, reclining in her boudoir!”--and
Nan gracefully sank into the damask-covered arms of the article of
furniture mentioned, arranging imaginary draperies over her feet.

“Don’t, Nan,” laughed Bess. “I’m growing hilarious now and Leigh’s
mother will be shocked at our laughing so much, especially when the
secretary reads the names the S. P.’s have been called.”

“Don’t worry about Mamma,” said Leigh. “She thinks that I have not had
enough fun with the girls since I have been here; but you all were such
old friends that I felt,--well, you know how a stranger would feel.”

“Especially a nice stranger like you,” warmly said Jean. “But you are
one of us now.”

No more time was lost. The president with quite an air called the
meeting to order, asking at once for the report of the secretary. Nan,
still occupying the admired piece of furniture, languidly read her
report, which was so funny that her hearers were convulsed. Nan had
quite a gift as scribe. No funny detail of how the S. P.’s started was
omitted. Shaking with repressed laughter, they felt that they could not
miss a word and Jean’s voice shook as she said, “You have heard the
report of the secretary,”--then she could not go on, and Molly moved
that it be accepted.

“We have had some valuable suggestions from our friends, the Black
Wizards,” ran the report. “Some were complimentary, some quite
otherwise. In planning the charades for the school party, Billy Baxter
told Jean that he would get all those Sweet Patooties, Smart Prodigies,
or Serpentine Pythons on his side, and Jean told him that she did not
mind being called a sweet potato, but she drew the line on being
either a prodigy or a python. Mr. French asked about the Serious
Pedagogues and Judge Gordon wanted to know more about the Seraphic
Peris. He had to explain to Jean that a peri is a kind of fairy! But we
feel that the judge appreciates us.

“We have seen the boys double up over some of their
brilliant--interrogation point--thoughts on S. P. and heard ourselves
called Some Pumpkins, Sweet Peas, Syrupy Pancakes, Serious Problems,
Sleepy Possums, Sour Persimmons, Sappy Poets, Saucy Palmists, and by
our principal, who deigned to listen one time, Soulful Psyches,--which
wasn’t so bad.

“So if the S. P.’s wanted what the secretary’s editor father calls
‘publicity,’ they have had it. Father threatens, as it is, to write it
up in the paper.”

After the secretary’s report had been duly accepted and Jean had
remarked that she would not call for a treasurer’s report, as there
could not possibly be any money in the treasury, Phoebe, who sat on the
floor near the fire, gave a bit of advice.

“The funny part of Nan’s report, Jean, is her write-up of you and
Billy and your ‘reaction,’ as she calls it, to the news of the Black
Wizards. I’d advise you not to let Mr. Standish, or Jimmy, get hold of
it.”

“Jean needn’t worry, Phoebe,” said Nan. “Father thinks all the stuff
I write is silly, and anyhow I destroyed all my notes. This new S. P.
notebook is to be kept locked up in my desk.”

Bess, Fran and Phoebe, the committee on what the S. P.’s should do,
asked for a “general discussion” first. Molly, by this time having laid
aside conscientious scruples about a secret club, said that as far
as she was concerned she’d rather just have a good time. That was a
popular suggestion and was applauded.

Jean, however, said that you had to have some program even for good
times. “I can’t think, for the life of me, any S. P. name that will
mean anything much, and if the rest of you can’t let’s let it go right
now. How would it do for the present to fix up our attic for all sorts
of funny things, maybe witches’ quarters if the boys have wizards. We
could even give a party there to all the boys and girls. Then Mother
suggested that when it gets too hot for meetings in the attic we could
be an outdoor club and take hikes and do things that girls and boys do
now. We’ve been doing them anyhow, a little, like our beach parties
over on Michigan, and our breakfast hikes to our own little lake. But
it would be lots more fun to do things as a club.”

“I have a lot of nature books, girls,” said Leigh, brightening. “How
would you like to start a little library in our club room and read up
on what girls study in some of the camps?”

“Fine, Leigh!” exclaimed several girls. “We ought to be up to date!”
said Fran.

“I have a tree book,” said Molly. “I never read it, though.”

“Molly’s turning frivolous,” said Phoebe. “All she wants to do is to
make fudge and be a witch.”

Molly, surprised, looked at Phoebe to see if she were being critical,
but Phoebe’s grin reassured her. “You have to be on too many programs
as it is, Molly, to want to improve yourself outside of school,--isn’t
that so?” Phoebe continued, and Molly nodded.

“But I like hikes, Phoebe, and I really ought to know what there is to
see around town and the lakes.”

“Let _me_ tell you something,” said Bess. “As I went down street on
errands this morning I met Miss Haynes. You ought to have seen her. She
had on old high shoes, an old hat and a heavy sweater. Some sort of a
case was swung around her shoulders and her pockets were stuffed full
of something. When she saw me she just grinned, nodded and went on, and
she was headed out of town, toward the lake. Imagine, on a day as damp
and chilly as this! Of course, _we_ do it, whenever we feel like it,
and we skate and all in the winter; but she was going all alone, and I
just thought to myself, there must be something to see, or she’d never
go just for her health or a walk. It’s muddy as anything out that road.”

“More ideas!” cried Nan. “How would it do for the committee to talk to
Miss Haynes? She’s the science teacher since Mr. Peters left and maybe
she’ll take us out on a hike. He did once in our freshman year, only I
think that he didn’t know much about anything.”

“That was the reason they let him go, I think,” wisely remarked Molly.
“I imagine Miss Haynes is getting ready for some field work with the
class.”

“I never heard of field work,” said Bess, “but I’m for it! Hurrah for
hikes and fires and food and we can at least prowl around and pretend
to have an ‘object’.”

“Oh, Bess. That makes me think! You say ‘prowl around’,--why not
Prowlers? S. Prowlers,--_what_ are prowlers, that begin with S?
Still--silent--searching--slinking--slippery.”

Jean paused for breath and Phoebe suggested “sprightly,” or “stalking.”

“Get the dictionary, somebody,” laughed Bess. “We’re going to ‘acquire
a vocabulary,’ as our English teacher recommends, if we keep on.”

“Steady,” continued Jean, still thinking, and now clutching her hair
in a pretense of great concentration. “Aha! How about Stealthy? The
‘Stealthy Prowlers’? That isn’t so bad, is it? If we want to see any of
the wild things in the woods around the lake, or even on the beach of
Lake Michigan, we’ll have to do some prowling.”

“I can’t say that I think it very pretty,” said Molly.

“It isn’t. I’m sorry that I got you girls into those initials.”

“It’s all the funnier, Jean,” said Frances.

“Why, I rather like it,” Leigh added. “‘Stealthy Prowlers’ has a touch
of mystery, as my mother would say. Let’s be it, for a while anyhow,
but we’ll never tell a soul, shall we?”

“After all the names that we’ve said yes or no to, just for the fun
of it, nobody would believe that this was our real name anyhow. And
aren’t witches a sort of prowlers? Why not prowlers with a good purpose
as well as prowlers with bad ones?”

“Put down Stealthy Prowlers, Nan,” said Bess, “as our best suggestion
yet, and let’s get to talking about our attic club room. But Jean, you
and Nan have more opportunity to see Miss Haynes than the committee
does. Please see her about the hikes. She might even know about Scout
work and be willing to camp with us somewhere.”

“That’s a great suggestion, Bess!” Leigh exclaimed. “Mother never would
let me go to a summer camp, but she might, near home, as it would be
here.”

S. P. ideas were growing. Jean and Nan promised to see Miss Haynes on
Monday; and then the planning was directed to immediate affairs with
the arranging and furnishing of the club room, the time of meetings,
whether they should have refreshments or not, and kindred matters to be
decided. Jean was to be spared some things, for it would not be fair,
the girls said, for her to be at all the trouble, or expense, if there
were any, about the room. It was enough for her to offer the room. But
Jean informed them that the furniture was there and the room doing no
one any good. “Mother is having the attic all cleaned for us to-day,”
she announced, “and this morning we decided that it was foolish to keep
a lot of things that might do somebody some good. So you ought to see
the clearance! But all the furniture that can be fixed for us, and some
trunks of things that will be lovely for us to dress up in will still
be there.”

“I adore an attic!” sighed Leigh. Then a neat maid came to the door to
announce that tea was ready, and the girls of the S. P. Club had their
first dainty meal together in their official relation.




CHAPTER V

THE WITCHING WITCHES


Phoebe was delighted when Jean told her how glad she was that Leigh was
in the club. “Do you know,” said Jean, “if it had not been that you
have liked her so much, I would not have called her that afternoon.
They seemed like such reserved people and have so much money and travel
so much, or I suppose they do, that I imagined Mrs. Dudley would not
care for us girls, and Leigh never seemed to. But I understand now.”

“She didn’t want to show how lonesome she was,” said Phoebe, “and then
she hasn’t been around much with other girls anyway. She was sick and
tutored, at home or wherever they were.”

The whole seven, Leigh included, were going to Jean’s after their good
supper at Leigh’s. The purpose was to inspect the attic once more.

“You feel better, Jean, don’t you, to have some sort of a real name
picked out, even if it may be only temporary?”

“Yes, Phoebe, after what I said to Billy. Some day perhaps I’ll tell
him all about it.”

“None of the rest of us will, and it must be understood that if we take
in other girls they are never to know how this started. We’ll probably
forget it anyway. It isn’t important to the S. P.’s.”

The girls were delighted with the roomy attic that was floored over
the entire house. Full of everything, it had not showed how large it
was. “Oh, Jean,” cried Fran, stooping her tall height a little as
she explored a corner near the eaves, “the room will be the regular
Witches’ Retreat, and we can have all this to fix up for a Hallowe’en
party or anything!”

“Yes,” eagerly seconded Leigh. “The _sanctum sanctorum_ we needn’t let
anybody see, if we want to be mysterious, but this would be wonderful,
as Fran says.”

“I wouldn’t want to wait for Hallowe’en,” said Jean. “Let’s have an
April Shower or a May Day, before it gets too hot and ask the Black
Wizards to have a stunt.” Then Jean gave a little squeal, for the one
electric light at the head of the stairs and another shining from the
room did not disperse all the shadows and she had not noticed that
someone else had come upstairs. It was Judge Gordon.

“Oh, Daddy how you scared me!” she cried.

“Sorry, Jean. I just came up to see what these witching witches need. I
see that we must have more lights, unless you prefer darkness for your
spells.”

“We wouldn’t need much more light until our party, but if you’re having
it wired it would be good to have it when we want it, any time. Of
course we could use candles.”

“And burn up the place. No, I’ll have proper lights. What else?”

“The running water doesn’t run and the chimney is choked or whatever
flue that is. The stove smokes, at least, and couldn’t we have a
fireplace instead?”

“You don’t want much, do you?” asked the judge, laughing. “But if
you will investigate, you will find that a little fireplace has been
boarded up. If you will be careful about fire, I’ll have it opened up
and a grate set in. The radiator was fixed to-day.”

The girls found the room, or “Witches’ Cavern,” by Molly’s suggestion,
quite warm enough for a meeting. They closed the door upon themselves
for private conference after Judge Gordon had left them.

“Do you think that your father heard all we said about witches?” asked
Bess. “He called us witching witches, which was very nice of him.”

“He probably heard what we said about Hallowe’en,” Jean replied.
“Anyhow, he suggested at noon that if the boys were Black Wizards, we
girls ought to be some sort of witches. He had walked home with Jimmy
Standish and Jimmy told him the latest school gossip, I guess. How
about it, Nan?”

“Nobody knows how all these things get around,” said Nan Standish. “But
it’s a good suggestion. Why not have Orders? The Order of the Witch or
Wings, for the bird division, for instance.”

“‘Swooping Pelicans’ would be better,” said Leigh quickly. “They look
just like old witches riding the waves in Florida!”

“So do the kingfishers all scrooched up on a limb over the lake,”
suggested Fran.

“And how about a little green heron watching for that next fish?”
queried Bess.

“This club’s getting altogether too smart,” laughed Jean. “Nan, take
these things down quick before we forget ’em! Stormy Petrel is another
bird name with S. P., and haven’t we a Phoebe bird and a Crane already?”

“Help, help!” cried Nan, sharpening her pencil. “Swooping
Pelican--Stormy Petrel, any more S. P.’s?”

Nan scribbled away, taking notes. Nor was she without some excellent
ideas of her own. For the next hour or so the girls made their plans
with many a laugh and chuckle. Leigh, who always had such pretty
things, said that she could bring some cushions for the couch, which
Mrs. Gordon had already covered with a gay couch-cover or robe. Fran
had some curtains that she would offer.

“Maybe you won’t like them, though,” she added. “I bought them myself
for my room when I was about ten years old, and Mother never would let
me put them up, since my room is at the front of the house, like this,
to be sure. Oh, I suppose they won’t do! They have all sort of crazy
things in the pattern, peacocks and birds and I don’t know what.”

“Why, that would be fine for Stealthy Prowlers, Fran,” said Jean.
“Bring them over and we can see. Mother has some plain draperies that
she is fixing. Those will show behind the shades, but we can have our
gay curtains inside of those. We’d have to have something to brighten
things up. And I have a grand idea--that is, if you think it’s grand,
of a witches caldron, right in the middle of the room, with a fire
under it, you know, or things fixed to look like one, and maybe an
electric bulb hidden in it.

“And let’s not have our witches all in black, since the wizards
will be, I suppose. Let’s have yellow and black, or red and black,
or--something!”

“Why not have each order of witches dressed differently?” asked Molly.

“In other words, each girl have a separate costume?” said Bess, in
smiling reference to their limited numbers.

“I suppose so,” Molly replied, “but we’ll probably have more girls in
outdoor things, won’t we?”

“That is to be decided,” spoke Jean quickly. It would not do to talk of
this as yet. Molly would have everybody, dear girl that she was, but
it would not always do. “By the way, girls, Dad said that we wanted
to be careful not to make any of the boys mad about us or get mad
ourselves--of course he did not put it that way, but that was what he
meant. He heard me gibbering to Mother about things, you know. I’ve had
to tell her quite a lot, of course. But I told my father that we were
being ‘just wonderful’ not to get provoked at the names the boys make
up for us, and that we were planning to _entertain_ the Black Wizards,
provided they would _condescend_ to an attic party. Dad just laughed
and told me that if we advertised plenty of refreshments he thought
that the Black Wizards would come. I said that we liked eats ourselves
and that the attic party would be a real supper, moreover, he could
come up and have supper with us!”

“I think that your father is just too nice for anything,” cried Bess,
warmly. “Just think of all the trouble and expense, too, in fixing this
up for us!”

“Dad likes to do things to the house, Bess. Besides he said he hoped
we’d wake this sleepy old town up and show the folks what boys and
girls needed in this ‘day and generation.’ I don’t imagine that he
wants us to do anything startling, though.”

Here there was an interruption from Nan. “Being secretary to this club
is just awful. Do you want me to put down all your old suggestions, or
wait till we really do something?” Nan was holding up her pencil with a
comical expression of despair.

“No, Nan,--you might make a few jottings of anything you think is
important, for fear the person that makes the suggestion might forget
it. This is not a formal meeting, anyhow.”

So spoke the president, and Nan replied with a twinkle, “When have we
had a formal meeting? Tell me that!”

“Echo answers, ‘When’?” laughed Jean.

And as informally this conference went on, among girls who were going
to try something without a real leader. As yet their plans were
unsettled, but they were evolving from chaos quite rapidly. The world
was theirs in one sense, and girls in a small town have some advantages
over others. It is easy for them to get together and it is only a step,
figuratively speaking, into the country, where wonderful things happen
all the time for those who have eyes to see them.

At present, fixing the “club room” stood first. Second, there was a
decision to give the Attic Party as soon as possible, by way of opening
the club room, or dedicating it. Then, meantime, how much should they
tell of what they were doing, and how could they keep it a secret club
if they had the party?

The president had things to say about this.

“Considering the _way_ this club was _formed_, I imagine that the less
_we say_ right now to the boys, about our plans, the _better_. I’d
dearly love to know what they are doing, but suppose we let them be
curious about _us_, instead of showing too much curiosity about _them_.
We can get up enough funny things to do ourselves, even if their doings
are funnier; don’t you think so?” All this was in Jean’s own emphatic
manner.

“_And_,” she added, “the Attic Party is going to do wonders to
everybody’s disposition. Remembering how Billy’s crowing about the
Black Wizards made me feel like getting even--in a way, let’s remember
how they’ll feel if we act superior or anything like that. Dad is
right, and this ought to be fun, pure and simple.”

The other girls agreed, though Nan remarked that she agreed “with
reservations.” “If Jimmy starts anything at home in the crowing line, I
may--,” but Nan stopped and laughed, then asked what the girls wanted
Jean and herself to say to Miss Haynes.

“Maybe you’d better not suggest anything about camping at first,
girls,” Phoebe suggested. “Just ask her if she knows what other girls
do about outdoor work and where we could find out and what she sees on
her trips, and if we’re going to have any field trips with her, and--”
Phoebe stopped, for they all were laughing at the long list she was
making.

“I think that we’d better add Phoebe to the committee,” giggled the
president. “All those in favor of adding Phoebe Wood to the committee,
say ‘ay’!”




CHAPTER VI

A NEW SORT OF A PARTY


For some days after this meeting mysterious bundles were brought into
the Gordon home. To pass Billy, or Danny, or some of the other boys,
with a knobby package whose contents were well kept from view by thick
paper and a well-knotted string, was such fun. Jimmy offered to carry
one for Nan one afternoon when she was coming from Leigh’s, but Nan
said that it was “fragile” and that she could trust it to no one. “Of
course, he wanted to feel of it and see if he could tell what it was.”

Whether the boys had a real club room or not they did not know. Nor did
they know how long the Black Wizards had been in existence. “Curiosity
killed the cat,” was all that Jimmy would say when Nan asked him where
the Wizards met, after informing him first, that the S. P.’s were
planning to have all their meetings at Jean’s, their business meetings,
at least. The girls carefully noted all the boys that wore the snake
pin, and put their names down. This was to make the number of girls
fairly even, when they gave their party of celebration.

Although there were no other children at Judge Gordon’s beside the
lively Jean herself, the club room was kept locked and it leaked out
among the boys that the judge was having a number of keys made, “I’d
like to get into their club room,” said Danny Pierce to Billy, “and see
what they have there. What can _girls_ do? If any of those girls lose a
key, O boy!”

Billy Baxter took great delight in repeating Danny’s last sentence to
Jean, who passed it on to the rest of the girls, creating quite a stir,
as Billy had intended. “Would they _dare_?” asked Molly, in horror.

“No,” said Jean, “but they might climb up and peep in. I’d better keep
the curtains together, though we’ll have to have the windows on the
balcony open part of the time.”

“Unless they’re human flies, they can’t climb up,” said Leigh, looking
out of the front window.

“There’s that oak tree,” Jean reminded her. “Wouldn’t it be funny if
they planned to do it, and then we invited them?”

“Yes, but we are not sure that we’ll let any one into the inner
sanctum.”

Every possible moment of the week was spent either on the attic
floor itself or in sewing draperies or annexing ornaments in the
various homes of the S. P.’s. It was not until Friday afternoon that
the committee visited Miss Haynes, screwing up their courage to do
something that turned out very pleasantly, as things dreaded often do.

The girls found Miss Haynes at the pleasant occupation of grading test
papers in her room after school. She nodded pleasantly as they came in,
halting just inside the door, while Jean asked, “Could we see you just
a minute, Miss Haynes?”

“Certainly,” she replied, “but take seats for a few minutes. I’m just
in the middle of averaging some grades.”

The girls sat down at the front desks, while Miss Haynes apparently
forgot their existence in her work. But they kept as still as mice, or
the Stealthy Prowlers they had decided to be, though time went on and
they hoped that she really had not forgotten them.

“There!” she said presently. “That’s done. Why do we have to have tests
and keep grades anyway?”

“Oh, that’s what _we_ think, Miss Haynes. Can’t you do something about
it?”

“I’m afraid not, Jean,” but Miss Haynes’ eyes danced. Why, it wasn’t
going to be hard at all to talk to her. Probably it was because she
liked hiking and things that she was so human!

The girls explained. They had started a club. They wanted to do some
things that girls did in some of the organizations they’d read about
in Camp Fire and Girl Scout stories and yet they wanted their own fun,
too. They knew that she took hikes and knew everything about nature
work and maybe camping, and could she suggest anything that would be
possible to do?

Miss Haynes listened thoughtfully. “Why, yes, girls do a great deal
that is very wholesome for them these days, but if they take up
anything seriously they usually have a leader. I am not familiar with
any of the organization work. Isn’t there any young woman in the town
who does?”

“Nobody, Miss Haynes, and besides, the older girls don’t want to bother
with us.”

“Will we have any field work in science, Miss Haynes?” This was Phoebe.

“Why, yes, a little. I’m sorry that I can’t start more, but there is a
reason this year. The schedule will not permit it, the superintendent
said, and there is some one who does not want the children to take
their Saturdays.”

Jean looked at Nan. “That old school board!” she thought.

“But if you want something to work toward outdoors, I may be able to
start you at something. Bird study is my particular hobby, but I also
teach and study botany, and bugs and butterflies and anything else in
that line. How would you like to begin on snails?” Miss Haynes was
actually pretty when she laughed and talked like this. Nan “bet” that
she wasn’t much older than the senior girls.

“My father has an old zoology text with lots of interesting pictures in
it,” said Phoebe. “I’d like snails better than snakes, but I think I
like birds best.”

“And you are a phoebe yourself, aren’t you? How many girls have you in
the club?”

“Only seven now.”

“Hunting birds in a crowd is not very good, but if you will promise
to be very still, and if you really want to make a start, you may all
come out with me early to-morrow morning. I will show you some tree
sparrows, a lot of juncos, possibly some fox sparrows, and there is
never any knowing what we may find. I’m perfectly delighted to be in
Wisconsin, for I’m sure that birds I’ve never seen will be nesting in
this inland lake. Then I found some interesting specimens of other
things in that swampy place along the little run. I suppose you girls
know the common birds and you can help me, for I have never been around
the Great Lakes much.”

“I wish that we could help you, Miss Haynes,” said Jean, delighted with
the sincerity and kindness of the teacher. “We don’t know much, only
some of the commonest birds. We know a heron from a gull and that’s
about all, I guess.”

“We’ll study together, then. Now I like to stay out a good while,
especially when we are finding things, so bundle up. Any girl that
isn’t warmly enough dressed will have to go back!” Miss Haynes smiled,
but her firm tone showed that she meant what she said, and it was not
the first time that the teachers had mentioned the girls’ dressing too
lightly.

“Wouldn’t it be a good idea to take a lunch, too, in case we want to
stay?”

“That would be lovely!” exclaimed Phoebe.

“Oh, yes,” said Jean, “and couldn’t we build a fire and have something
the way we do at a beach party?”

“A fire would be a good idea, if it is in a safe place, but if you are
going to see birds, you don’t want to carry much. All I have will go
into my pocket. Have any of you field glasses, or even opera glasses?”

Nobody had, so far as these girls knew. “And, Miss Haynes, don’t you
bother about any lunch,” said Jean. “If you let us go with you, we’ll
take enough sandwiches for all of us,--please.”

“Very well. That is very nice of you. I am glad that we are having
this warmer spell, but bundle up just the same, for there will be some
breeze, at least near the lake. Do you ever have any snow in April?”

“Sometimes, but it usually does not stay so long. You speak as if you
didn’t want any. Don’t you like winter fun any more?”

“I’m not too old yet, Phoebe,” laughed Miss Haynes, “but I want to get
out as easily as possible during the spring migration of birds,--so I
want a pleasant April and May.”

“We’ll do our best to get it for you, Miss Haynes,” declared Nan,
rising with Jean, to go. You didn’t want a teacher to get tired of you,
of course, and Miss Haynes was busy. Funny, she didn’t like tests,
either, because you had to grade papers. Still, how would she find out
who knew anything?

The girls hurried home to call up the rest of the S. P.’s and notify
them of the hike. Leigh said that her father had a field glass. She
would bring that. Mrs. French hunted up an old opera glass for Molly.
Kinds of sandwiches were distributed according to the variety each was
in the habit of making most successfully. Chocolate bars were bought,
to be stowed in pockets.

Without something hot it would be a funny sort of a beach party, they
thought. Accordingly local shops sold a few tin cups or those equally
light. The girls would have cocoa.

In the morning, Jean, who had no glass to carry, put her sandwiches
in an aluminum kettle, carefully wrapped “not to rattle and scare the
birds away.” Water could be found at springs familiar to all of them.
Cream went farther than milk and was not so heavy. One bottle was
tucked in the pocket of Phoebe’s oldest coat and Nan put another in
hers. Pockets bulged and Bess swung from her arm a box of marshmallows,
these for toasting.

Miss Haynes smiled broadly when the seven girls made their appearance
at the door of her boarding house, just as she was starting out. “Good
for you,” she cried, “all with sensible wraps on. I fancy, from the
looks of your pockets, that we shall not go hungry.”

Familiar as the girls thought they were with the country about their
town, Miss Haynes, a comparative stranger, could show many new things;
for some conveyance had usually taken them to the big lake, and to
the smaller ones sometimes, for their beach parties, and many very
interesting bypaths were unknown to the girls.

How wet it was. Water came up around their overshoes as they walked
over the soft turf by the muddy road. Snow lay in the fence corners.
But the sky was blue and the birds were already singing, some meadow
larks in a field and a flock of red-winged blackbirds in a swampy place
not far out of town. Miss Haynes called attention to a song sparrow in
a little leafless tree, where twigs and bird were etched against the
sky. For the first time the Stealthy Prowlers deserved their new name,
as they crept near enough to get a good look at the brown splashes on
the sparrow’s breast, with the “breast-pin” where they coalesce. And
while they watched, the little finch bill opened and the bubbling,
merry song rang out.

Miss Haynes, pleased with their interest, watched the girls more than
the sparrow. “When you learn to know voices and songs,” said she, “you
will not have to see some of them to find out what they are.”

“I never thought of learning the voices of birds,” exclaimed Phoebe,
who was musically inclined. “Has it been here all winter, or has it
just come?”

“It may have been here all winter, not singing much.”

The sparrow had flown away before they began to discuss it, but Miss
Haynes directed them toward some willows by the brook, which they were
approaching. “I see a little flock of birds about those willows,” said
she. “Come quietly, and tell me what you see, after you have had a good
look. I will pass the glass around.”

This time they stood at some little distance and looked through Leigh’s
glass, Molly’s opera glass and Miss Haynes’ stronger glass. One little
fellow settled in the top of a bush, giving the girls a fine view of
his breast. No, it wasn’t another song sparrow.

Another little chap turned his back upon them; but just as the other
bird flew, this one shifted his position, and they saw that his breast
was like that of the other. Then some movement in the bushes startled
the flock. With a soft whirring of wings, together they all flew away
and Miss Haynes turned smiling to ask, “What did you see, girls? How
many had a good look?” she added, in teacher fashion. “You scarcely
know, I suppose, how lucky you are to start your bird study so early,
before the foliage gets in your way and before some of the winter
visitants leave us. I’m much mistaken if the tree sparrows will stay at
this latitude, or fox sparrows, either.”

“Mercy, how many sparrows are there?” asked Jean. But not waiting to be
answered she continued enthusiastically, “Oh, I had the _best_ look,
Miss Haynes! They are the cunnin’est! I saw just a sparrowy back,
something like the English sparrows, and the top of the head was a sort
of reddish brown. Then right in the middle of the breast there was a
cute little spot. It wasn’t streaked, like the song sparrow.”

“Very good, Jean. Remember particularly the one spot. Not all of
the sparrows are so easily identified. You asked me how many there
are,--probably you will identify a dozen species around here, during
the migration, and there are more.”

“I’ll never get them,” declared Bess.

“One at a time,” suggested Miss Haynes, with a smile. “Nature lessons
are much like other lessons, except that there is such a thrill to them
that you are more likely to remember them.”

“I believe it!” cried Jean.

“Did you hear a sweet little song, different from that of the song
sparrow, Jean?”

Jean and Molly had noticed it.

“It was from one of the tree sparrows,” explained Miss Haynes.

“Did you see him do it?” asked Leigh.

“No; I just know the song,” Miss Haynes returned.

“Imagine!”

Miss Haynes was already much at home in the country about the village,
and the girls, on the other hand, were greatly surprised to find how
little they knew about some phases of their native environment. They
left the swampy region, crossed the brook, now considerably swollen,
but having a bridge, and then left it behind to climb a high bank or
bluff, from whose top they could see the larger stream, or river which
drained the inland lake. A few robins were among the trees here. These
the girls knew, as well as the bluebird warble, which called their
attention to the singer.

A bluejay called harshly and two or three crows flew over. Miss Haynes
motioned to the girls to stand still and listen. Dead leaves in wet,
drifted heaps, patches of snow, and leafless trees were around them.
Jean drew her coat more tightly around her and fastened her fur collar
together. The March wind was noticeable here.

Now came a funny little call, like the far away honk of a car, Jean
said afterward. Miss Haynes’ pointing finger drew their attention to
the trunk of a large tree. Some of the girls looked blank, but Jean had
caught a glimpse of something. Some bird had moved around, upon the
opposite side of the tree trunk.

There he was again! Ah, how pretty! What could it be? A little
gray-blue, or blue-gray bird was searching the old trunk for food. He
seemed to be getting some, too.

Jean strained her eyes to distinguish the markings, until Miss Haynes
put her own glass in Jean’s hands. Then, alas, she had trouble in
focussing it for her eyes and the bird had gone out upon a little limb.
“If birds would only stay put!” she thought. Now it was back upon the
trunk. Now it was going up; now it was going down. Now it “walked out
on the under side of a large limb,” as Jean told her father that night.
Finally she had a good look, for the little fellow stopped, raised his
head and looked off for a moment, to see if there were any danger near,
or, possibly, to find a better feeding ground.

“Quank-quank!” he said, or “honk-honk!” How shining a black were his
crown, and nape, and how white his breast. Never would Jean forget her
first white-breasted nuthatch. Thank fortune, it wasn’t like anything
else, either. You wouldn’t get it mixed up!

By this time Miss Haynes was becoming so interested in teaching
the girls that she decided to give up her own cherished time for
discoveries of her own in order to keep on showing them what were, so
far, perfectly familiar to her. But her reward came a little later.

Again the girls became the Stealthy Prowlers in earnest as they tried
very hard to make no noise in going down a little cleft in these
high banks. There was snow instead of mud, which made it easier, if
slippery. In a moment they stood upon a stony ledge that was only a
short distance above a wider, sheltered spot, where a number of birds
had gathered out of the wind. Miss Haynes’ glass was directed toward
some little birds upon the ground. Accordingly, the girls focussed
attention and the two other glasses there.

Those using only eyes could see some little brown-streaked birds,
scratching like chickens among the dead leaves. Molly grinned as she
put her opera glass into Jean’s hands and pointed out one little bird
nearest them, whose active foot was making dirt and decaying leaves fly
behind it. “Did you ever see anything cuter?” she whispered. “Must be
some other kind of a sparrow.”

By this time Jean was getting accustomed to seeing differences. So
clear was the white, so heavy were the brown streaks of the under
parts. There was a greenish tinge to the sparrowy crown, as the sun
shone full upon it. The long tail was a reddish brown, but it was a
sparrow tail. “It’s bigger than the tree sparrows,” she whispered to
Molly, “and look at the little thing near him. It’s different. I’d like
to look again when you are through. If I’m not crazy, it has a pink
bill!”

Molly looked at both birds, changing the focus of her glass as the
birds moved a little farther away, still feeding. “Now take it, Jean,
quick! What do you suppose that little dark thing is? It’s got a black
hood and cloak on!”

Jean’s hand was trembling a little as she took again the glass offered
by generous Molly. Nothing is more thrilling than discovery. It may
not be a discovery which thrills a continent. It may even be something
that others have discovered before. But something becomes yours. And
just that combination of circumstances may be new. In these years many
girls and boys are lending themselves to scientific gains.

Jean was not the only girl who was afraid that the birds would fly
before they had seen all there was to be known about them. The glasses
went from hand to hand. There was perfect quiet till Miss Haynes
herself slipped a little on an icy stone. Another whir of wings, and
the birds were off!

“I’m glad that it was you, Miss Haynes, and not us, we, I mean,” said
Bess, correcting her own error.

“Yes, I was the guilty one,” laughed Miss Haynes, clutching Fran to
regain her footing.

“Oh, Miss Haynes, what were those little dark things, and which birds
had the white streaks in the tails when they flew? I was too confused
to tell.”

“You are very observant, Jean, I see. Those were the slate-colored
juncos, or black snow-birds. They were feeding with the fox sparrows.
They have white feathers at the sides of the tail and show them when
they fly. Did you think them pretty?”

“I think _so_!” cried Leigh. “Those pretty pink bills! And they were
all white underneath, so it looked as if they had dark hoods and
cloaks, the way the dark gray went straight across the breast!”

“That’s just what Molly thought,” said Jean. “I must put down what I’ve
seen for fear I’ll get it mixed.”

“I’m taking notes, Jean,” said Nan. “We’ll keep a record of what the S.
P.’s see.”

“Then put down that the tree sparrow is called the ‘winter chippy’
sometimes,” Miss Haynes added. “The chipping sparrow is a little like
it, though that has no spot on its breast.”

“I saw a little streak of brown on the tree sparrow’s cheek,”
meditatively remarked Jean, to the amusement of the crowd. But Miss
Haynes told them that it was proper to speak of “cheeks” with birds.

Back to the top of the bank they climbed, to see bronzed grackles,
which they knew as common blackbirds; more bluebirds, and a small flock
of quail that scurried across an open space into underbrush.

But Miss Haynes said, “Listen. There is one more _very_ common little
bird that I’ll wager half of the United States sees and does not know.
That is the tufted titmouse. I thought I heard one. Here it comes.”

Something flew into a tree above their heads and great were the
twistings of necks and pointing of glasses in the effort to see.
A second bird followed the first and there was what Jean called
“conversation.”

“Sounds like kissing,” said Molly, listening, while Jean looked through
her glass.

“More like chirruping to a horse,” declared Phoebe.

In a moment a clear, sweet whistle came from above their heads. “Spring
is here now,” said Miss Haynes. “The tufted titmouse has given us his
word.”

“Was that it, that ‘Peter, Peter, Peter’?” Fran asked.

“Yes. And you may have noticed that the whistle was a little like the
quality of the chickadee’s whistle.”

“Why, doesn’t the chickadee call ‘Chickadee, dee, dee, dee, dee’?”

“Yes; and the titmouse talks in about the same ‘tone of voice’; but I
mean the clear whistle of both of them. That will be one thing for you
to find out, then. The chickadee is the black-capped titmouse, so you
see they are related. Who saw what the titmouse looks like?”

Several hands were raised, much as in school, but no one could say much
more than it was a little grayish bird with a tuft on its head. “Look
it up in the bird book,” said Miss Haynes.

“Oh, we haven’t any bird books, Miss Haynes!”

“That’s so, you haven’t, and not a library in the whole town except the
school library, and that is limited! Well, there is one encyclopedia,
also a dictionary! I tell you what I’ll do. I will bring my Chapman’s
Handbook and some field books I have to school; and if you will be
careful of my books, I’ll let you look up any bird you like. Take
careful notes of every point when you are out. Then look it up. I will
show you how different the bills are and how you should look for size
and shape and flight and coloring and everything. Oh, what is that,
girls?”

This time it was Miss Haynes who asked the question. They were
approaching the inland lake that lay ahead of them, its quiet waters
only ruffled a little by the wind now, and its whole expanse shining
in the morning sun. Reeds at the end nearest them grew up in shallow
sands, and there it was that Miss Haynes had caught a glint of yellow.

“Where, Miss Haynes?” asked Jean.

“I caught a gleam of yellow; but those were blackbirds, weren’t they,
that disappeared into that copse?”

“I did not notice, because blackbirds are so common; but we have
yellow-headed blackbirds here and I imagine that is what you saw.”

“Jean, that was it! Why, do you know I never saw one before, and to
think I did not find them last week! Now find me a new water-bird, and
the S. P.’s may study birds with me forever!”

At that the S. P.’s began to look about in earnest. “We have black
terns that nest here,” said Leigh. “Father knows them.”

As if in response to their eager desire, that of pleasing their new
friend, two birds flew out of the reeds and settled upon the narrow
beach. “Oh,” gasped Miss Haynes, forgetting girls and everything as
she stood with her glass at her eyes. The girls stood stock still,
not caring to look for themselves, for these were birds that circled
about the lake all summer, birds in every variety of plumage, adult or
immature.

But one of these two terns was the adult male bird, with its black
head, neck, breast and underbody. The other bird was still in winter
plumage, or was immature. “I don’t know whether that bird ought to be
black at this time or not,” breathed Miss Haynes to herself, “but it
is. Put down in your notes, Nan, that the S. P.’s have shown their
teacher two new birds this day! Now let us have lunch.”

Enough material was found that would burn, especially as Jean’s kettle
contained some kindling and paper below her sandwiches. Let the Indians
make fires without matches. The S. P.’s would do it in the quickest
way possible. There was not much danger that they would set fire to
anything so damp as the surrounding woods, but they were careful, for
the wind had dried the leaves in some places. It was a mild breeze
now and the sun was warm. They screened their fire from the wind by
dragging a log around and putting some branches up against it, or
behind it in the sand. “We’ve had a fire here before,” the girls said,
by way of explaining how they could so easily find two posts, so to
speak, that supported a third long piece from which Jean’s kettle could
hang. It was a little insecure, but Jean watched it, ready to catch the
kettle’s looping handle upon a long stick which she held.

“The boys usually drive down the supports for us,” said Bess, “but we
have to learn to be independent now. We’ll take you to a beach party on
Lake Michigan some time, Miss Haynes, if you will go. We’ll get some
wild place where the gulls are likely to be, if you like.”

“I shall like very much, Bess, and I will go with pleasure.”

The fire was allowed to die down as soon as the cocoa had come to the
proper stage. Water from the spring was poured upon it, for they wanted
to leave as soon as the lunch was eaten. Along the old log they sat to
eat their sandwiches and fruit and drink their warming cocoa, though
the sun shone down upon their backs and kept them from being chilled.

Nan drew from her pocket the notes which she had scribbled on the
way. “Tree sparrow, fox sparrow, junco, song sparrow, robin, bronzed
grackle, white-breasted nuthatch, tufted titmouse, meadow lark,
red-winged blackbird, chickadee, turtle dove,--I guess that’s all.” But
on the way back they added more, though only recording those that the
S. P.’s had actually identified, or had thoroughly noted themselves.

Where two sloppy roads met, on the way from the lake, several of the
Black Wizards came along, just ahead of the girls, to enter the main
road from the one at an angle to that taken by the S. P.’s. “I wonder
where the boys have been,” said Jean to Nan.

“I wonder what those girls have been doing with Miss Haynes,” said
Billy Baxter to his companion. “That’s all the S. P.’s are, a nature
club! Seeking, searching, strolling, I’ve got it, the Strolling
Pilgrims. Wait till I write that on the blackboard Monday morning!”




CHAPTER VII

THE BLACK WIZARDS’ DILEMMA


How the girls worked that next week! Mere incidentals like lessons
would come in to detain them, or hinder them from spending every minute
on that precious new “club room,” the Attic Marvel of the Ages, as
Judge Gordon called it. “Grecian architecture has had a remarkable
reputation, Jean,” said he, and then it dawned upon Jean, who was
having history, that Attic with a capital letter meant pertaining to
Athens or Attica, or something Grecian. “Oh, you crazy Daddy!” she
exclaimed. But to the girls she chuckled over their “Greek art,” as
they put up the curtains with the peacock and birds of paradise and
twining vines with flowers.

One of the pieces of furniture “rescued from oblivion” was a small
bookcase. That they set up in the _sanctum sanctorum_ and began
to fill. Molly brought the tree book and a big botany text of her
father’s. Jean put in the zoology text and an old copy of Hooker’s
_Natural History_. Fran’s aunt, who was visiting for a few days,
promised to send her a field book of wild flowers. Leigh brought over a
book on butterflies and said that her father had promised to duplicate
for her whatever Miss Haynes had for birds. “He’s going to write to a
big book firm in the East, too, and find out _everything there is_!”
she announced. “My birthday comes in May, and if I want to, I can have
books for the club.”

The Witches’ Caldron would not go so well in the middle of the room
because of the electric bulb attachment. It was given a decorated
corner, with draperies attached above in such a way that the caldron
could be concealed when desired. It was an immense iron kettle, used in
days far back for making soft soap, an article of manufacture of which
none of these girls had ever heard. But the kettle had belonged to Mrs.
Gordon’s family heirlooms and had been brought by her from their former
home to this one. Both Judge and Mrs. Gordon were of families in these
regions.

There was an animated discussion about whether they should call
themselves witches, or sibyls, when in the performance of initiations
and the like. “Sibyl” was more classic. The name, moreover, began
with S. But _did_ Sibyls ever have kettles? The judge gave it as his
opinion, based on a Latin classic, that they had caves, though he said
that the kettle and its contents might be symbolic of the bubblings
of the subterranean and volcanic lavas. S. P. might be the Sibyl’s
Portent, the Sibyl’s Pit or the Sibyl’s Potion.

“Thanks for the suggestions, Daddy,” said Jean demurely, “but we are
not announcing our name as yet.”

The spinning wheel and a few other antiquated interesting relics were
left as decorative to the wider expanse of attic outside of the room,
but the room itself was made cozy. The old grate that belonged in the
small fireplace was found among the rest of what the judge called
“junk.” Several very good chairs were mended and placed in the sanctum,
along with an old-fashioned kettle, which needed only a little soap and
water first, then some gay paint, to make it suitable.

Fran had found in her attic an immense majolica jar in bright colors.
This she had brought over in her brother’s Ford coupe, although she had
been asked what she was going to do “with that hideous thing.”

“Never you mind,” Fran replied, as she did it up in thick paper, that
the world might not “gaze thereon,” she said.

The girls, who were working busily, greeted it with shouts. “A prize,
Fran,--where did you get it?”

“It was some present, girls, years ago, I believe. Mother gave it to me
gladly; but won’t it be just the thing for the Sibyl to drop her wise
sayings into? We might touch up the colors a little, or subdue them,
just as you like, and with a little drapery it should stand near the
kettle, perhaps.”

“These artistic ideas grow upon us,” laughed Bess. “Would your mother
feel very bad if it were broken?”

“She’d scarcely shed tears of anguish, Bess.”

What with the different ideas, Orders of Witches, or Sibyls, and the
restraint of various limiting circumstances, the girls were a little
confused sometimes, but they kept steadily at one purpose, that of
making a bright club room for the present and laying quiet plans for a
summer of camping together. That idea grew from the first. They talked
it over with Miss Haynes, who was pledged to secrecy. She thought that
she would not be able to go with them, but the matter was left open.
There was too much of school left before them to make final decisions
or call the parents into conference.

Miss Haynes, however, gave the girls the benefit of her books as
reference. They took the list of them. Each was going to persuade a
parent to buy her one of those they needed at once. For the rest they
would earn money in some way. It was not long, then, before upon a
little cherry table, whose age and associations the girls scarcely
appreciated, the Chapman _Handbook of Birds_, the Reed field books
and the first magazines of _Bird Lore_ had a prominent place. Judge
Gordon said that as soon as he recovered from the expenses of having a
club room in his house, he might be induced to help out with the S. P.
library, and Jean told him that he was a funny daddy but nice.

But science was not the only interest. The Orders of Sibyls were duly
started, as soon as the girls decided between sibyls and witches. As
Billy one day enlarged upon the fun the boys had in initiations, and
Jean duly repeated all he said, S. P. initiations began. These, after
the manner of initiations, were entirely secret, though Judge and Mrs.
Gordon often smiled at the squeals of surprised victims, or giggles of
the other girls. Not even the president was exempt from initiation,
but the girls promised to do things that were “really smart,” not
silly tricks to hurt the girls. Nan and Jean were especially good
at thinking up impressive ceremonies, with the Sibyls attired in
mysterious robes, and Molly, as a minister’s daughter, was acquainted
with so many different ways to entertain that the girls said they had
only to ask Molly when they wanted a new “stunt.”

Mrs. Dudley sent over by Leigh a fine copy of Michael Angelo’s Cumaean
Sibyl, which they hung in a place of honor upon the club room wall, and
Jean hoped that some day she, too, might see the strange Last Judgment
and the wonderful figures of prophets and other conceptions of the
great artist and sculptor. Leigh was very simple about her advantages
and did not seem to feel any superiority, as a girl of less character
might have done, because she had seen the original paintings upon wall
and ceiling. They made Leigh head of the department of travel and art,
though she said that she really didn’t know anything about either.
“I just saw what Mother and Father did,” said she, “and some of it I
remember, and lots of it I don’t!”

Time went very rapidly until Jean said that they must get at their
Attic Celebration if they were going to have any. Initiations took
several lively meetings. Occasionally they had merely a fudge party in
the club room, when ideas gave out, or they were tired of decorating
and making posters to put up around the attic. As the migration of
birds grew more interesting in April, they not only went with Miss
Haynes, but had their own private hikes after school, or early in the
mornings on Saturday, submitting their lists or their descriptions to
her when she was not too busy. Sometimes she was able to take out her
science classes, when they looked not only for birds but for everything
else in Nature’s great laboratory.

The earliest flowers had been found. Trees were being listed and their
leaves, coming out, noted. Even the frogs were not altogether left in
peace, and the Wisconsin pools were investigated. The girls often met
the Black Wizards upon their hikes, but that was to be expected, for
boys always “tramp around and see things,” as Jean Gordon said. “I
don’t believe there’s going to be so much crocheting and embroidering
or fussing with clothes in our crowd after this, Mother,” said she.

“It is just as well,” Mrs. Gordon replied, “though you must not forget
to learn the gentle art of needlework, and I should think that with
your beach parties and hikes you might want to learn cooking as well.”

“I believe that’s an idea, Mother!” cried Jean. “Suppose you teach
me first of all the good things to stew, ’cause we can cook things
in kettles already. Maybe there is some book on outdoor cooking, or
something we can read up on c--well, I think it’s a good idea anyway,”
Jean finished, rather lamely. She was not ready to broach the subject
of camping as yet.

At last they were ready “to-start-to-commence-to-begin,” Bess said, on
the invitations. The S. P. with its interests and a few purposes was
fully established. The attic was as complete as any place ever is that
belongs to girls full of new ideas from time to time. Molly and Phoebe
were the artists that made, or at least planned, the posters, as they
called the decorative pictures that they made and placed in “strategic
positions, whatever that was,” Fran giggled, as she put up a large
pasteboard supported picture which expressed Phoebe’s idea of “A Black
Wizard Calling Up The Spirit Of Magic.”

The Black Wizard was a tall, lank figure dressed in flowing black robes
and wearing a pointed black hat. He was waving a rather wobbly stick
over a smoking fire, out of which rose a spectral shape with a hideous
face. A snake coiled about the fire, and another lay at the feet of
the wizard.

“That’s supposed to be the smoke taking shape into the figure of magic,
girls,” Phoebe explained. “That’s why you can see the tree through it.”

“Oh, you’re supposed to see through spirits, aren’t you?” Nan
suggested. “It’s very good, Phoebe. You’ll make an artist yet. I don’t
think that the Black Wizards will mind being put in a picture, but we
can’t help it if they do. They’ve made too much fun of us. Did you see
Georgie Atkins writing ‘Stuffed Pigs’ on the board the other day?”

“That disagreeable little freshman?”

“Yes. But Danny Pierce saw him and made him rub it out and took the
eraser and rubbed it over his head till I know his hair was just full
of chalk dust.”

“The Black Wizards aren’t so bad,” laughed Jean. “They tease us
themselves, but some of the boys won’t stand for its going too far.
Well, what do you think? Are there enough posters done and can we get
out our invitations right off?”

The decision was that it could be done. Phoebe and Molly made the
designs and the other girls drew and painted till their fingers ached,
they declared. It was no ordinary affair. There were to be place cards,
on which a mysterious Sibyl presided over a steaming kettle, while a
large frog gaped widely at one side and a black cat arched a bristling
back opposite.

Sometimes it is more fun to get ready for something than to take part
in the actual performance. But the S. P.’s knew that the Attic Party
would be a success. It was different from what there had been before.
They knew that both boys and girls would be curious about their club
room. With a few games and good things to eat, everybody would enjoy
it, they felt pretty sure.

Whom to invite was a problem. The whole high school was not very large,
but they had school and class parties sometimes. “Shall we just invite
the Black Wizards and let them bring the girls they want?” asked Fran.

“Some of them might not want to bring any,” suggested Molly.

“We might not get all the girls we want here,” said Jean.

“I believe that it is better to invite the girls ourselves, and let
the boys take them home if they like,” asserted Bess. “Let’s just have
plain, written invitations, since we’re tired of drawing place cards
and making pictures, and send them to each one, with a special letter
to the Black Wizards asking them to have a stunt.”

Upon this suggestion the S. P.’s acted. The number and list of guests
came next in order. There were only fifteen in the senior class. Of
these, four were Black Wizards. It was easy enough to choose four of
the senior girls who would be acceptable to these senior boys. “Will
the seniors want to come?” asked Leigh, who did not know many of them
very well.

“Oh, yes, I think so, since it is a different party and a compliment to
the Black Wizards, in a way,” Jean answered. “If they will not come, it
is all right.”

“Jimmy will want to bring Clare,” said Nan. “He’s in that state when he
welcomes any chance to take her anywhere! And here is a place where he
can sit by her at a good supper and not have to pay for the eats.”

“Nan! Well, we want Jimmy and Clare for any reason,” declared Jean,
“and Bob Metcalf will bring Lucille Arneson, I’m sure. She’s a peach
and sweet to us younger girls. I don’t wonder Bob likes her. Now there
are six junior Wizards. Whom shall we have for them?”

“Wait, Jean. I haven’t got anybody down except those four seniors. We
have to have four more.”

The other four seniors were listed, two senior girls acceptable to
the S. P.’s selected. The six junior Black Wizards were discussed and
several junior girls added to the list. There was more discussion about
the sophomores, their own class friends. Six sophomore boys completed
the number of sixteen Black Wizards, but the whole class numbered
twenty-five. What should be done?

“I suggest that we invite all these girls that we want, and if there
are more girls than boys it won’t make much difference, for Nan and
I at least will have to wait on table, and Molly would help us, I
thought. We can have a woman in the kitchen to help, Mother says, but
we haven’t any money to have waiters, you know.”

“I think it will be just the thing to have all of us S. P.’s in our
costumes, you know, and waiting on the table and managing everything;
indeed, Jean, I don’t see how it could go off well without it,
though you ought to sit at the head of the table, starting it off as
president.”

But Jean shook her head. “I think we might have some place fixed for
us, a little table, or something, because we want to enjoy the good
supper, too. But if you girls are willing to be ‘extras,’ it will give
us a chance to have more sophomore girls. The other boys might feel
funny to be with so many Black Wizards,--don’t you think, and couldn’t
we have a sophomore party up here soon, to make everybody feel all
right?”

The girls thought that fitting, for there were boys outside of the
Black Wizards whom they liked. They sighed with relief when their list
was completed. Eight seniors, twelve juniors and twelve sophomores
would be seated at a long table which should run the “length of the
house, almost,” where the third floor roof was highest in the center.
“Sixteen on each side, girls, and two places on each end for Fran,
Bess, Leigh and Phoebe,--to keep order,” announced Jean. “You see,
after the whole meal is ready to serve, it will only take Molly, Nan
and me to do all the waiting necessary.”

“All right,” said Fran. “We’ll all help prepare the tables beforehand,
of course.”

“I’ll get Jimmy to help fix the long table, if there’s no objection,”
said Jean.

“No objection whatever,” said several of the girls. “Who cares?” asked
Fran. “Pledge Billy to secrecy about anything he sees and get him to
come over to help you, Jean, if you need him. He’d like the fun, and
we’ll not put up our posters anyway until afternoon.”

No hint of the great celebration had been given, for the girls were
pledged to silence. With the exception of Mrs. Gordon not even
the parents knew that the girls were planning anything except the
completion of their “club room.” In consequence, a number of girls were
happily surprised by neat invitations to an Attic Party at the home of
Jean Gordon.

Written by seven different girls, the invitations were not exactly
alike, but if Leigh’s was a model of composition and Phoebe’s a wild
scribble, as she claimed, they all presented the same facts. It was on
Saturday at six o’clock at the home of Jean Gordon that the pleasure of
Miss So-and-So’s society was requested by the S. P. Club for an Attic
Party. Costumes were also suggested, though that was not required.

With the one invitation to the Black Wizards they took great pains.
A small copy of the Black Wizard poster was made into a cover for
the invitation. The request that the Wizards offer a “stunt” for the
occasion was put as attractively as possible. It was a large square
envelope in which Jean handed this invitation to Billy Baxter, with the
explanation that the other invitations were being sent through the
mail, but that he was entrusted with the care of this one, to be put
into the hands of their president or High Wizard or whatever they had.

“Here is the list of girls we have invited, Billy, and if there is any
one that any of the Black Wizards want asked, it will not be too late,
if you let me know to-morrow morning. We do want you to do something
after dinner, as Leigh calls it. _We_ have supper at our house. But we
are going to have a real chicken dinner, though, and we hope that the
boys will like it.”

“_Sure_ we’ll like it,” said Billy, turning over the invitation in
his hands. “I don’t know what they’ll think about the stunt, though,
especially the senior boys.”

“Let them out of it, then, and you juniors and sophomores do it. Now,
tell me sure, Billy, if I have the list of boys all right. I thought
that there might be some that did not wear the pin and we haven’t heard
about. They’re all invited, of course, but we have to fix places at the
table.”

Jean showed Billy the list, which was complete, to her relief. “Are you
actually going to have a party in an attic, Jean? I thought you had
only one big room up there.”

“We have one big room finished in front, but the whole attic is
floored and runs all over the house, so we are going to have one big
table and I wish that you would help Jimmy Standish fix it for us, the
way they do at the church suppers. Molly said she thought we could
borrow the tables they have at their church, if we were careful.”

“Sure we can. I’ll get the truck from the store and Jimmy and I can
bring them over and fix them for you. How many will you need?”

“Oh, just two or three, maybe only one. Come over after school and I’ll
take you up there. Molly and Nan and I are going to be there and Jimmy
will probably be over, too. But be sure to tell the boys that we’re
sending out the invitations early so they’ll have time to think up
whatever stunt they want to. We hope that it will be a funny real Black
Wizard one.”

“Our stuff is all secret, Jean.”

“Of course, but couldn’t you think up something on the same order, only
not just what you do?”

“Perhaps.”

And this was what caused the dilemma of the Black Wizards. What in the
world did those girls want a stunt for? Jimmy and Bob were disgusted.
“We might know that if we helped those kids start up that old lodge of
ours we’d get into a lot of nonsense!” said Bob.

“Yep,” said Jimmy, pushing his long legs under the table in his room.
“But the girls are getting up a big supper. I guess we can stand it for
once. The boys are dying to show off their new costumes. Let’s take the
ban off that part of their secret stuff and let them do something.”

“But what?”

“Make them think up what,” said Jimmy, after the cruel manner of
seniors. “Aren’t you the Grand Wizard? Can’t you eat chicken pie and
mashed potatoes and gravy and about six different kinds of jelly or
sauce and I don’t know what all? I heard Nan discussing the menu with
Mother.”

“Yes,” grinned Bob, “I think I might stow away some of that along with
any junior or sophomore. All right. I’ll put it up to the kids and tell
them they can’t make it too silly.”




CHAPTER VIII

THE ATTIC PARTY


“Nan,” said Jean, on Saturday morning, when she and Nan were the first
arrivals in the attic with a load of articles for setting the tables.
“Nan, don’t you remember how Jimmy used to be very mysterious about
some meeting of the boys? What if they had this society then,--the boys
about his age? You and I weren’t much interested in those days. How
long ago was it?”

Nan laughed. “You must be a mind reader, Jean. Do you know I came
across an old text of Jimmy’s last night. I was hunting a book I
wanted out of a lot put away in a closet, and off the shelf fell this
book, half open on the floor. I picked it up and straightened out a
few pages to put it back, and there was a funny picture on one of the
blank pages, or supposed to be blank, and a list of boys’ names. ‘Grand
Wizard, Jimmy Standish,’ led the list and I shut up the book in a
minute. It did not seem exactly honorable to look further, though why
Jimmy left it all in his old book I don’t know, if he cared anything
about keeping it a secret. I was going to tell you about it but forgot
it till you spoke just now. That was when he first went into high
school, four years ago, and at the beginning of the year.”

“Boys can keep a secret, then, if we can’t,” said Jean, with a wide
grin. “But I think it’s largely because we have different ideas about
such things!”

“Oh, of course, Jean,” assented Nan, matching Jean’s grin. “Never
acknowledge any superiority on their part; besides, we can keep still
about something real important, like somebody else’s secret, or keeping
quiet as we have this time till we get ready to be public.”

“Do you think that we’ll get through with everything by six o’clock,
Nan?” asked Jean, changing the subject suddenly. The urge of imminent
events was upon Jean’s shoulders as hostess and president.

“Of course we shall. Don’t worry. Your mother said that she would
direct the woman and see that everything to eat was all right and ready
on time. That’s off our hands. Our job of scrubbing was a good one.
It looks as neat as a pin everywhere, though I think we’d better dust
thoroughly before we set the tables.”

“Yes, and not a bit of soot will come through since Dad had everything
fixed, the chimney pointed up and the roof all mended.”

In a few minutes, Leigh and Phoebe came with baskets of extra silver
and china and napkins, for they were to use them rather than the usual
paper napkins with which they were content at the ordinary party.
Posters were now put up. Laughter and jokes went around. “You see,
girls, we’ll have plenty of room for the fun afterward. Just as soon
as the supper is over, we’ll clear everything away. Jimmy and Bob and
Billy will help us get the dishes downstairs. I’ll have the baskets
right under the eaves, all covered up and we’ll stack the soiled plates
and everything in them. Jimmy said there wouldn’t be much food left.
But we’re going to whisk everything in the candy line over on the
little table and let them nibble through the evening.”

“What will you do with the long table?”

“Have it taken apart and carried down to the shed right away.”

The S. P.’s worked busily all morning and part of the afternoon, but
by orders from mothers, they stopped before three o’clock to go home,
rest, and dress later. By half-past five o’clock they were all back
ready to receive their guests and wondering what those same guests
would wear. Word had gone out that it would be a costume party,
and they did hope that the Wizards would wear their own costumes,
presumably of their “orders,” if they had any.

The “witching witches” looked charming, Judge Gordon told them, in
their sibyl costumes, all yellow and brown and white, with different
badges of their mysterious orders. They had made pointed hats of
pasteboard covered with crepe paper and ribbon, and the narrow white
and yellow ribbons that they tied in a bow under their young chins were
very fetching, according to the judge. “If I wanted to have my fate
revealed,” said he, “I certainly would have no one consult the oracle
but one of these charming nymphs.”

“We are not nymphs at all, Daddy,” Jean objected. “We are sibyls, but
not necessarily ugly or old, and if we want to adapt history, why not?”

“Why not, indeed? It is the fashion now to write up history or
biography at the author’s pleasure and I doubt if some of the actors in
the tales that are told would recognize themselves. I’m sure that you
are a great improvement on the historic sibyl.”

The day had not been a very pleasant one, but the girls were thereby
consoled for the fact that they were too busy to take the usual
Saturday morning hike. A strong, cool wind blew making Miss Haynes
say that she would not find many of the little birds flying. This was
some consolation, for the girls had been interested in the migration
of the warblers, birds tiny and beautiful, of which they had scarcely
heard before and never seen to recognize. But clouds cleared away in
the afternoon and the wind ceased blowing. The furnace fire that the
judge had made in the morning was allowed to go down as the day warmed,
and the attic was made pleasant with very little heat, all its windows
open, for it was past the middle of May.

There were two main reasons for serving the dinner first of all. First,
it would have been difficult to manage carrying the food to the attic
with the presence of guests there. Second, nothing ever started up very
easily before refreshments, Jean declared, and it would be much easier
to have the stunts and games after the meal.

The Wizards arrived masked, and were met by the whole seven sibyls,
unmasked. Yellow draperies fluttered against the long black wizard
draperies or robes, as the girls flew around, congratulating them on
arriving in costume and together, and directing where the girls that
were coming should put their light wraps and find mirrors. Jean’s
cheeks burned rosily with excitement. It was beginning all right, at
least.

When the last guest had arrived, Jean, Molly and Nan slipped away, to
help take up the baskets of last things, and direct their placing.
Jimmy Standish slipped off his black robe long enough to carry up a
large kettle of hot peas, the big, flat basket with three large pans
of chicken pie, and pitchers of lemonade. Under Mrs. Gordon’s capable
management, nothing was omitted. A table in the corner was ready for
the hot food.

Then Leigh gave the word that each Wizard was to take his lady and
proceed to the attic. “You will meet your hostess at the top of the
stairs,” she said, “and you will find your place cards at the table.”

Exclamations of pleasure were heard by the happy sibyls as the
procession reached the attic and Jean waved them in the direction of
the long table.

“Gee, Jean, this is some attic!” said a Wizard.

“Why, who ever heard of an attic like this?” cried a senior girl. “You
have electric lights and rugs on the floor and--everything!”

It was a pretty scene. Judge Gordon had consented to having candles on
the table. These were yellow and white, a little brown supplied here
and there by a narrow crepe paper ribbon, among the table decorations.
Yellow and white flowers were not hard to find, for syringa and white
peonies happened to be in blossom and Leigh’s mother had some creamy
roses in her greenhouse.

The rugs were a temporary loan, except those in the inner sanctum,
and had been gathered up from the various S. P. homes. Interesting
decorations in different corners and the large posters caught the
young eyes at once, but they did not need much urging to find their
place cards at once, as Jean said that the “picture gallery would
be on display after supper.” The electric bulbs were covered with
yellow shades, but only two of them were turned on, as it was more
“intriguing,” Leigh said, to have the chief light come from the candles.

The long tables were covered with white linen. The fruit mixture known
as fruit cocktail was already at the places, also the salad, and plates
of rolls, jellies, honey, pickles and olives, were properly arranged,
to avoid much serving. As soon as the fruit was eaten, the girls
removed the glasses and plates and brought the savory plates of chicken
pie, mashed potatoes and gravy, and peas in little crinkled patties.
Mrs. Gordon served the chicken pie and Molly filled the patties with
peas, either of them putting on the potato and gravy, while Jean and
Nan hurried the plates to the table in record time. Then Mrs. Gordon
escaped to the regions below, where a genial judge would be more
genial when he had his supper. The waitresses, too, sat down to enjoy
themselves, for Jean would need only to replenish the fresh rolls from
the covered pans on the side table, or hop up to serve a second platter
of chicken pie, ready to be filled and passed. This was a supper where
everything was to be eaten up, and the Black Wizards did justice to it.
By the time they were ready for the ice-cream, they would have done
anything the S. P.’s wanted, so far as willing spirit was concerned,
but Jimmy told Jean that he hoped they wouldn’t be called on to perform
right after a “supper like that.”

“We shall dawdle over our ice-cream,” Jean assured him, “and no guest
of the S. P.’s is going to do anything he doesn’t feel like doing.”

“Hurrah,” said one sophomore Wizard, but he was silenced by a look from
the Grand Wizard which warned him that he must mind his p’s and q’s.

Mrs. Gordon, through with her own and the judge’s dinner, came up to
help with the change of courses, to put into the baskets the plates
brought from the tables by the girls and to serve the ice-cream.

“Did you S. P.’s bake this cake?” asked Danny Pierce, with a fork
neatly separating a bit from a piece of the cake known as devil’s food.

“No, we didn’t,” Jean replied, “but we’re going to learn. That is in
one of the S. P. departments, as you might say.”

“Cooking?” asked Danny.

“Yes. But we haven’t gotten to cakes yet.”

“Want any orders?”

“Why, yes. I hadn’t thought of it, but we’re going to make some money,
or try to. How about an order of fudge for your next meeting?”

“Fine--unless it’s too expensive.”

“The S. P.’s will be _very_ fair in their charges, especially if our
parents give us the materials. It won’t cost any more than buying stuff
down town.”

“You will depress trade, Jean,” said Bob Metcalf.

“Not enough to hurt, Bob.” Jean assured him with a dimple in her hot
cheek. Thank fortune, so far the party was a success.

After the meal, the guests were invited to inspect the picture gallery
while the tables were cleared and removed. Jimmy, Billy, and even the
judge coming up from below, carried baskets of dishes down to the
kitchen. “If this is going to be a permanent cafeteria,” said the
judge, “I’ll put in a lift for the girls. Who knows? Perhaps Jean will
support me in my old age with her sky parlor.”

“Great scheme, Judge,” said Jimmy. “You certainly would have customers
with meals like this.”

The picture gallery was examined with interest by the Wizards and by
the girls who had been invited. There was the Wizard picture, well
labeled. Several funny incidents at school had been recorded in art by
Phoebe. The seven sibyls had the faces of the real girls cut from old
snapshots and pasted on the figures. They were in their yellow robes,
which were carried out in long draperies that joined yellow streamers
and whirled around their heads. “The S. P.’s in a tornado,” suggested
John Taylor, a jolly sophomore and a friend of Billy’s.

But perhaps most of all they laughed at a series of drawings in crayon
by Phoebe that illustrated the different names the S. P.’s had been
called. She had been making them along for the fun of it without
telling the girls; and when she brought them that last afternoon of
their preparations for the Attic Party all proceedings were stopped for
a little while the girls laughed over them until they were breathless.
These were in outline and of cartoon style.

Here were the Strolling Pilgrims with field glasses and bulging
pockets, bending forward to look at a long-legged bird that was
wildly speeding away. Here were the Silly Peacocks before a mirror.
The Stormy Petrels hovered above a huge wave and had human faces. The
Swooping Pelicans were witches in that they wore peaked hats and had
brooms tucked under their wings. The Snooping Puffins, a particularly
opprobrious name, was illustrated by the outlines of a row of puffins
sitting on a rock and looking fiercely at an angular Black Wizard whom
a wave was about to engulf. Danny Pierce, whose brilliant mind had
evolved that name for the S. P.’s had the grace to blush when his eye
fell upon that picture. “Oh say, Phoebe, I didn’t mean anything by
that! You know S. P. can mean almost anything.”

“So it can, Danny. We’ve discovered that by this time,” replied Phoebe
with a mischievous look. “But we don’t mind. It’s been such fun. I did
a dozen of these to surprise the girls, and when we decided to give a
party I kept them till now.”

“You ought to study art, Phoebe, and do a lot with it, though how you
can in this little town, I don’t know.”

Phoebe looked sober for a minute. “I’m aching to study, Danny, but I’ll
just do what I can now. My father says it’s not where you live but what
you do with it,--any little talent that you think you have, he meant.
And lots of big people come from little towns, he says, because we get
some things here,--well, things they study about in big books, we can
just go out and see, easy as pie.”

“I wish I dared tell you what the Wizards are going to do this summer,
Phoebe.”

“I wish I dared tell you what we girls _want_ to do. Whether we’re
going to be allowed to do it or not is another question.”

But Danny went on around the sides of the attic walls, seeing the Sour
Persimmons hanging from a tree, mere faces with a round persimmon
body and a collar of the persimmon type; the Sobbing Poetesses that
wept into large bandannas; the Starchy Pedagogues that wore wide,
stiff robes and carried diplomas under their arms, and the Sad Prunes,
seven wrinkled faces, darkened and lying in a scoop such as is used in
groceries.

Flattering names like Sugar Plums, Seraphic Peaches or Peris, and Sweet
Partners, suggested by their elders, Phoebe had omitted, keeping only
to the more ridiculous combinations possible.

“Yes,” said Jean, “we are going to open up the _sanctum sanctorum_,
where we have our initiations and everything. To be sure, our secrets
are locked away, but you may see the caldron where with incantations
the sibyl,--but you will see that I can’t explain any more, of course.
And as soon as you’ve seen the room you may have your fortunes told by
the High Sibyl.”

Chatting, laughing boys and girls in costumes of all sorts, for the
girls came as fairies, Martha Washington, other historic ladies or even
gay rovers of a feminine type, all crowded into the room when Jean
threw open the door. If some of the girls were a little envious and
wished that they, too, belonged to the S. P.’s, they did not express
those feelings and admired the gay appointments as generously as
they could. The Wizards laughed at the peacocks in the curtains, and
tried the locked door of the closet as if they would break it open
to discover the secrets of the S. P.’s. One of the boys gave the knob
such a pull that it came off. The girls nearest squealed, and the Grand
Wizard said, “Look out there, no rough house!”

“Oh, that’s all right,” said Jean, as the boy looked rather dismayed
and stood with the white knob in his hand. “It was loose anyhow. It can
be fixed.”

“I’ll f-fix it myself,” stammered the boy, one of the sophomores, “if
you think I can do it without seeing what is in the closet.”

“We’ll see about that,” laughed Jean. “Honestly, Carter, I don’t care
one bit! Now who wants her fortune told first?”

Jean had been standing before some draperies in one corner, for she
really would have felt rather put out if any one had tried to see
behind them. Yet they concealed only a corner fronted by a sort of
mortar board partition which the girls had fixed themselves, and a
little swinging door, cut out and held in place by strips of muslin.

“This, ladies and gentlemen, is the sibyl’s cave. Even now she is
consulting Apollo--I guess it’s Apollo--about your future. You will
find on that table some little slips. Write on them your favorite
flower, your favorite study, your greatest ambition and the girl or
boy you like best. Your name is not necessary. Then, when you are
ready, I will hand them to the guardian of the cave and presently you
will hear the oracle speak. Oh, yes, number your slips, please, and
remember your number, for your own convenience, because they will be
handed in order to the Guardian, who will impart their information to
the sibyl. It wouldn’t do you any good to hear the first fortune, you
know, if you had forgotten that you were number one. The sibyl is very
peculiar. She’s something like that mad prophetess Jimmy was telling us
about that wrote her prophecies on leaves and let the wind blow them
every-which-way.”

It took a little while for the girls and boys to think up their
favorite flower, study, ambition and friend of the other sex, and some
of the more easily embarrassed omitted the last requirement, though
Jean told them that it was “very dangerous” to do so. There was much
chuckling and joking while all this was being done, but Number One was
ready before long. Then Jean drew aside the two curtains that were
directly in front and disclosed a low chair, behind which stood the
“Guardian” of the cave, her face concealed by a long veil of yellow
cheese-cloth, the same material as that in the girls’ costumes.

The swinging door, cut irregularly, and the mortar board around it had
been painted in gray and black to represent rocks over quite a surface
not hidden by gray draperies. These were fastened to the board, and
also covered what was really an old stove pipe, whose end protruded,
but was carefully pasted over outside, and inside for a short distance,
with more “gray rocks,” in heavy paper.

“After the Guardian has retired into the cave to carry your message to
the sibyl, you will take your turn in sitting in this chair, to listen
to your fates. Through this long tube of natural rock the oracle will
be declared!”

Jean did not try to keep her face straight as she made this dignified
speech, and the boys and girls had all sorts of funny comments to make
while she handed the slips to the priestess of the yellow veil, or
motioned to them to do so. Then she drew the curtains together again,
while the Guardian entered the cave, as she explained.

“These slips will be all mixed up, of course, and the great sibyl will
not know _who is Number One or Number Two_ when she receives these
slips. I do not myself know in what order you will be summoned.”

Again Jean drew aside the long curtains. A hoarse whisper issued from
the stove-pipe. “The oracle is ready. Let Number Thirty enter.”

This happened to be Jimmy, who sat in the little chair none too
comfortably, and had trouble to draw up his knees sufficiently for them
to be concealed behind the curtains when Jean drew them in front of
him. “Say, Jean, can’t a fellow have any air to breathe?” he asked.

“Plenty coming from the cave,” she replied. “The S. P. string quartette
will now render a number while the oracle speaks these secret fates.”

Attention was diverted from the oracle while the “string” quartette was
found to consist of Bess with her ukelele, Fran with her guitar, Phoebe
with an old banjo, on which she only pretended to play, and Nan with a
comb! But ukelele, guitar and Nan’s comb, together with the laughter
of the guests, made so much noise that Jimmy stuck his head out from
behind the curtains. “Say, the oracle says she can’t make me hear with
all that noise.” Jimmy was evidently enjoying himself, if he had been a
little hesitant about being the first victim.

The music grew softer immediately, but it was impossible to curb the
chatter, and, indeed, if there were any privacy to the fortunes, some
distraction outside was necessary.

After the first the fortunes were rapidly told, but in spite of the
whispered messages, the boys guessed pretty well who was the chief
sibyl, Leigh. It had to be either Leigh or Molly, for there were Jean
and the “string” quartette right before them.

“She’s right in that cabinet,” said Danny, coming out with a grin.

“No, she isn’t,” said Jean. “Don’t you know that sibyls only speak from
a great distance in some shrine or other?”

“But you wouldn’t say that this is one, would you, to be honest?”

“Well, I’m not saying; only she isn’t in this room.”

Leigh was enjoying herself. She had learned to tell clever fortunes
and with the concealment her shyness disappeared. It was not necessary
for her to have the slips, prepared with such care, for her “fortunes”
had been prepared beforehand with a good knowledge of each girl’s and
boy’s history, likes and dislikes. She was stationed just outside the
double windows, upon the tiny balcony there. The movable front of the
“cabinet” or “cave” extended sufficiently to allow the other end of the
stove-pipe to connect with Leigh and the balcony. Had any of the boys
gone out through the windows, they would have seen how it was managed.
But the couch on which the players sat had been placed in front of
the windows for the occasion, and until the time to admit the guests
the door of the _sanctum sanctorum_ had been locked. Molly, who could
see each occupant of the little chair, through a cleverly arranged
peep-hole, scribbled the name on a bit of paper and passed it to Leigh,
who read it by a flashlight. But it was a long time before any of the
boys knew how it had been managed.

After all the fortunes had been told, except those of the seven sibyls,
the company was invited out into the real attic stretches for games.
While Jean was starting these, Molly came from the cave, locked the
door on the inside and then admitted Leigh, who had been afraid someone
would see her if she climbed through the lighted windows. In darkness
Molly received her, and when they left the room they locked the door
behind them lest any investigator should discover their secret.

There was plenty of room for the usual games played at their parties
and after two or three, Jean, who had not forgotten the request of the
S. P.’s to the Wizards, clapped her hands together for quiet and said
with a deep bow to Jimmy, “We have with us to-night the secret society
known as the Black Wizards and we have hoped that they would give us
something far better than anything the S. P.’s can think up. The Black
Wizards, ladies and gentlemen!”

Great clapping of hands came from the ladies of the company, but Jimmy,
Grand Wizard of Wizards, had always thought that what the younger boys
had prepared to do was “too dumb.” He wasn’t going to have them show
themselves less smart than those cute S. P.’s.

“Madame president, or leader of the _Sibyl Priestesses_,” and
Jimmy emphasized that, “we greatly regret that after all this fine
entertainment the Black Wizards cannot now respond. In other words,
kids, we haven’t our stuff with us and can’t handle it in a strange
attic! But we hope to have a celebration some day, in our own quarters,
where we may show you what Black Magic can do!”

“Wow!” said Billy, who knew that Jimmy had made up the expression Black
Magic on the spot. But the boys were much relieved at being let off
from the stunt which they had prepared without any inspiration except
that of dire warnings from the seniors.

And all this time that boys and girls in the little town were
manufacturing mystery, less than fifty miles away, a young girl was
living it.




CHAPTER IX

MORE IDEAS AND A WIZARD MYSTERY


The S. P. Attic Party was voted a success. The girls were tired but
happy over it, for their guests had so obviously enjoyed themselves.
There were so many echoes of it that it was hard to settle down to
lessons on Monday. Phoebe was sitting with Leigh on an iron bench in
the school grounds that afternoon, soon after they had been dismissed,
when Danny, or Dan, as he preferred to be called, came by with Raleigh
Warner and stopped to talk.

“I have an idea, Phoebe, if you will believe such a thing possible,”
said Dan. “Could you let me borrow some of the cartoons you and Molly
drew for your show Saturday?”

“Our show!”

“Well, your art gallery, then. I mean the ones about school, that good
one of the principal, and the funny one Molly called ‘What May Happen
Soon’.”

“Mercy, which one was that? I’ve forgotten.”

“The one where Miss James is driving the _ponies_ out of the Cicero
class and they’re kicking up their heels, and some of the boys, the
riders, I suppose, are flat on the floor.”

“Yes, Dan, and that is a good one where Billy is pulling his father’s
Ford out of the mud-hole where he got stuck, and the one where the
bob-sled is and Fran looking at her ruined hat.” Raleigh was adding
this.

“I see,” said Phoebe. “You just want to borrow them?”

“That is all,--now. How soon could we find out whether the girls will
let us have them or not?”

“Oh, pretty soon. I’ll call up Jean as soon as I get home. Suppose you
call me up about supper time. I’ll know by then. Of course, you will be
careful of our masterpieces?”

“I’ll treat them like glass, honest. I just want to show them to
somebody now.”

“All right. I’m willing, if Molly is and if Jean has no objection.”

As no one objected to lending pictures to the boys, the following day
saw Dan and “Rall” conferring with Jimmy Standish, and later with no
less a person than the editor himself, in the editorial sanctum, a very
ordinary but busy office.

“Why, yes,” said Mr. Standish, “we could print it for you at a very
moderate price, but who will pay for the job? We are not running on
exactly a missionary basis.”

“No, sir. We will pay for it out of our own pockets, unless it is more
than we can handle, and soon the subscribers will pay for it.”

“You are more sure of your subscribers than we are,” said the editor,
with a smile. “Let’s see the pictures.”

Dan unwrapped Molly’s and Phoebe’s drawings.

“Clever stuff,” said the editor, with another smile. “Yes, for a school
paper such outlines will do very well. Send the girls in to see me some
time. I can give them a hint or two. My advice is to make your paper
snappy and short. Begin with two rather small pages or even one sheet.
If you want to enlarge it you can. Get your stuff together and hand it
to Jimmy to make ready for you. I’m making an editor out of Jimmy as
soon as he learns a few more things----”

“About printing, and the composing room, and reporting, and everything
else,” added Jimmy, who came in at this moment. “But Dan has a good
idea about a school paper, Dad, and I think it will go with the
kids. We’ll try ’em out on the first numbers. I’m to write the first
editorials, Dad, so if there is anything you want to get across on
school matters, let me know.”

“All right, Jimmy. There are a whole lot of things I’d like to ‘get
across’ in this town, boys, but you don’t dare wake ’em up too soon
when they’re walking in their sleep.”

“Gee, isn’t Jimmy’s dad smart?” asked Dan, as the boys left the office.
“That was a hot one about this town’s walking in its sleep.”

“We’d better keep it under our hats, too, boy. He said more than he
meant to. Did you see Jimmy making eyes at him?”

The girls, meantime, were in the dark in regard to why the two boys
wanted the drawings. They were more concerned, however, about having
missed a day’s hiking, when they heard what Miss Haynes had seen, in
spite of the bad, windy morning. Wednesday morning they were to meet
at four o’clock, with their breakfasts in their pockets, and hike till
schooltime. May was going and with it the spring migration of birds;
Miss Haynes would be going away after school closed, the first week in
June, and there would be no one to make them sure about what they saw.

“Oh, but you must learn to make yourselves sure,” she told them, when
Jean said as much to her. “You will miss some things; everybody does;
but you’ll learn twice as much on your own initiative!”

This hike was to be “on their own,” then, for even Miss Haynes could
not manage a hike before school. And curiously enough, it was because
of their early rising that the S. P.’s surprised a venture of the Black
Wizards, which it was quite plainly to be seen that they had hoped to
keep a secret.

It was great fun to be starting off together in the early morning. They
would not even make a fire for wieners or bacon. This was strictly a
cold breakfast. As they went they munched sandwiches and tossed crumbs
and cold banana skins “to the birds,” they said. Judge Gordon had
bought Jean some glasses as good as those of Miss Haynes and these she
shared with the rest, for who could see the markings on a warbler or a
vireo up in the high treetops without a strong pair of lenses?

The bushes and trees along the river road seemed best for finding
warblers. Accordingly they were tramping along that road, still as
mice, behind this bush or that, moving quietly, singly or by twos or
threes, when they heard a shout and a big truck shot by. It was loaded
with lumber and the shouting came from several boys of the Black Wizard
combination who were either perched on the boards or sitting in the
driver’s seat in front.

Whether they had seen the girls or not was a doubtful matter. Jean came
out from behind a tree against which she had been braced in trying to
look almost over her head. “Say, every warbler will take to cover after
that noise! Who was it?”

“Oh, Jean! Didn’t you see them? They were the Black Wizards on a load
of lumber, and why should they get up so early if they didn’t want to
get out of town before we should see them?”

“You flatter the S. P.’s, Fran. But I shouldn’t wonder if they are
doing something.”

“It does look that way, Jean,” said Molly, laughing at Jean’s blank
look. “But maybe that wasn’t their lumber.”

“And again, maybe it was,” remarked Bess.

“Jimmy was in bed when I left,” thoughtfully Nan added. “And I hadn’t
happened to say anything about our trip. I forgot it at supper, just
told Mother when we were doing the dishes and I fixed something ready
to take for my breakfast. I’ll warn Mother not to say anything, unless
she has already. I don’t believe they saw us, and it is surely not for
us to make any comments on where they were going.” Nan’s face wore a
comically sober look.

“Far be it,” said Leigh. “But where could they be taking it?”

“All of us have a suspicion, of course. Girls, they could even reach
Lake Michigan, unload and be back for school!”

“Nonsense. Danny Pierce’s father has a farm on our little lake.
Probably Mr. Pierce wanted Danny to bring out some lumber this morning
while he could.” So concluded Jean.

“Yes, but what were all those Black Wizards doing with Danny? Danny
_was_ driving, but you couldn’t get Rall out of bed with anything short
of an earthquake for any helping Danny with a job like that!”

“Yes, Rall is always a late riser, I’ve heard the boys say, poking fun
at him. Maybe you’re right, Nan. Of course we want to go camping so
much ourselves that our first thought is--what it is. Oh, wouldn’t it
be great fun if our folks would let us go somewhere? A tent would be
good enough for me! But it’s hopeless unless we can get some one to
chaperon us. Mother won’t hear of anything else.”

“We might camp in our back yards.”

“Yes, we could,” said Molly, and meant it. “But when Grace gets home,
I’m going to begin talking S. P. to her. She will be dead tired, and
perhaps the woods will look good to her. We’ll do all the work.”

“Oh, Molly! They’d let us go with Grace!”

“I think so, Jean.”

“Father has a piece of woods on Lake Michigan, or very near it,”
offered Leigh. “I heard him say that he had sold a piece of it off not
long ago. I never saw it, but it’s quite wild, Mother said. He always
meant to build two or three cottages there, one for us, but he never
has.”

“I feel my brain expanding, girls,” soberly said Jean. “Find out, if it
is permissible, to whom your father sold that land. Also please ask
him if it has water and is free from wild animals!”

Leigh laughingly said that she would make every inquiry suggested
except the last. “There isn’t a bear left in the state except ‘way in
the north.”

“Who knows, girls?”

“Nevertheless, Jean and Leigh,” said Nan, “I don’t believe that the
boys would build on Michigan. More likely, if they are not close,
they’ve gone on to what we call Lake Baldy because of all the eagles
around there. The boys like that lake because there is such grand
fishing there and more room to row and get around. I’ve heard Jimmy say
so.”

“Time will tell who is right,” said Bess. “Come on; the scare is over.
Let’s go on to where all those trees are with such tiny foliage. They
are just likely to be full of warblers.”




CHAPTER X

A LONELY GIRL


The forlorn, tumble-down place of the Kleins was on what had once been
its own private road, the road that led into a large, well-kept farm of
thrifty German immigrants. But this was long ago. A worthless son and a
still more worthless grandson had scattered the holdings. The woodland
and nearly all of the farm besides had been sold off for debts and
living. All that was left numbered a few acres and those badly kept in
the intervals of Jacob Klein’s drinking.

Mrs. Klein, Jacob’s wife, was almost as far from German thrift and
ideas of cleanliness as her husband, though, if some one else did the
work, she was capable of having things done. And it was the girl known
as Greta Klein that did them, for Greta did not even go to school.
The district was thinly populated, or had been until people began to
build cottages on the farther end of the lake. No one took an interest
in these unattractive people and though it was quite probable that a
school census had been taken and a visitor had called, possibly more
than once, so far as Greta might have known, no one summoned her to
school, no one passed that way to go to school, and Greta had never
seen the quite distant spot where learning was the central idea.

As the speech of the family was German, Greta spoke their poor dialect
of that language, though she had recently found an old German Bible, of
her great-grandmother’s, she supposed, in an ancient trunk which was
in the queer little attic. But aside from this and a few papers, the
trunk was empty, for everything which could possibly be used in the way
of clothing had long since been put into use. But after the Bible was
found, Greta’s German improved.

The house consisted of a one-story cottage, the first building of the
original immigrant, and built solidly by the farmer himself. To this
two-roomed cottage an addition had once been made, with one room on the
first floor, a low room above and a tiny attic. The addition had never
been painted. The paint upon the first cottage had worn off with the
years and the storms until the shabby, dilapidated house looked all of
one piece with its dark, dingy exterior.

Birthdays were never celebrated in the Klein family, but when Greta
once asked her mother when she was born she was told that so far as
her mother remembered it was the fifteenth of June. This Greta did
not forget, though she never mentioned it again. For some reason her
parents did not like her, she was sure. There was a little boy of five
and a little girl of three, for whom her mother seemed to have some
affection, but Jacob Klein paid scant attention to any of them except
to threaten and be as abusive as a man who drinks can be. For Greta
there was only hard work with an effort to avoid her father as far as
possible. In this her mother helped her. More than once she had sent
Greta into the woods with the younger children and taken a severe
beating herself from the quarrelsome Jacob.

“I’m going to go off by myself on my birthday,” Greta promised herself.
She had never done it before, and she was not sure just what would
happen if she did; but she would. Probably the campers would have come
by this time at the cottages and Mrs. Klein would get some washing to
do, or, rather, for Greta to do. But that would not matter. She would
take one day. If she only dared walk into town! But that was a long
way off, and then her clothes were so queer that she was ashamed to be
seen. Once in a great while Jacob Klein would take his wife and the two
younger children in the old wagon, behind the bony horse, and drive to
the village. But since some one had asked why he did not send Greta to
school she had never been taken, and that was as much as three years
before.

Unloved and unloving except for a sort of affection for the two
ill-natured children, Greta was an unhappy child, often puzzled over
many things, odd things that had happened. For the woods and the river
and most of all the lake that shimmered its blue in these early summer
days, Greta had a great love. There clothes did not matter, nor whether
she had enough to eat, and with a feeling that she must be personally
clean, a feeling not shared by the other Kleins, she had gotten into
the habit of slipping out of the house in the summer days, before the
rest had wakened, and of taking a plunge into the often cold water of
the lake. Then, refreshed, she would return, ready for the hard work of
the day, or for the tiresome task of looking after the children.

It was about four o’clock one morning when Greta flew through the woods
on the opposite side of the road past the Klein house. Mrs. Klein had
told her that she must catch some fish before there would be anything
to eat for breakfast. They were out of flour and there would be no more
killing of the few hens they had, whatever Jacob had to say about it.
He could work a little.

Through the trees Greta darted while the birds sang and the life of the
woods stirred about her. She carried a little bundle beside her fishing
pole and when she came to a large willow that hung over the water, she
stopped, stepped among some screening bushes and threw off the dingy
clothes she was wearing, to put on a queer patchwork of a bathing suit
which she had sewed together from pieces. She did not dare to wear any
of the clothes her mother knew about, and as there was an occasional
early fisherman on the lake she must have something in the way of a
water garment.

But it was fun to dive from the long, heavy limb that extended into
the water. It was deep enough for a good dive at this point, and Greta
enjoyed a short swim before she landed a little further down, ran to
the bushes and dressed again. Then she hung her shapeless bathing suit
on a high limb, to dry, and hurried to where an old boat was moored.
In a few minutes she was far from the shore, sending her boat to the
fishing ground where she thought she would have the best and quickest
success.

This took her near a point that ran out into the lake, a low point,
wooded and beautiful with its tall trees and thick bushes. A clatter of
some sort drew her attention from her line after a while. Looking along
the shore, she saw, in a comparatively open space a team of horses,
apparently attached to a wagon, and a large truck backing around. The
clatter, she now saw, had been made by a pile of lumber, thrown from
the truck. More was being put in a different spot.

Greta’s clear eyes needed no field glass to determine that a number of
boys were running about, directing, calling, looking up and down the
shore, and while she looked two of them hugged each other and performed
an impromptu dance of exultation in an open spot. Greta laughed in
spite of her small acquaintance with laughter. Boys, building a shack,
of course for a summer camp! Well, she would have to keep out of sight
more carefully than ever. Greta sighed as she drew in her line and
took from it a fat lake trout. She rowed farther away and cast again,
waiting patiently and thinking of many things. At present her ambition
was to help, either with housework or with children at some of the
summer cottages. But when she had asked her mother if she might, she
had met with a sharp refusal, though the money from such work would
have helped at home.

If she only could earn a little money with all the hard work she had
learned to do! She could have some decent shoes, perhaps and one whole,
respectable dress!

One other fish, and there was enough for a good breakfast. It was six
o’clock when she reached home, to be scolded for being so late. Jacob
Klein was still in a drunken sleep. Mrs. Klein was just getting up and
the children were clamoring for attention. Roughly their mother spoke
to them, telling Greta to do the milking and the feeding outside first,
then to clean the fish and get breakfast.

Greta had friends in the lean cow, whose chief feed was the grass by
the roadside, the hens, a straggling lot, a few baby chicks, and a
couple of gaunt pigs in an ill-smelling sty at the rear of the yard.
Two dogs, shut in the old barn for the night, came leaping out upon
Greta as she opened the door. She was the only one who never kicked or
abused them.

So Greta Klein’s day began, much better than the winter days when there
was a hunt for fuel, chiefly taken from the woods which did not now
belong to them and where good trees would be missed. Fishing could be
done by cutting the ice in the lake, but flour was often low and they
lived on the cheapest of food.

The children had milk for their breakfast. Not until the ill-tempered
man who actually ruled this family stirred and demanded something to
eat did Greta cook the fish, dodging a slap from the great hand, so
ready with a blow, and not daring to take a taste of the fish which
she had caught. A glass of warm milk, taken from the pail before she
brought it in, since objection might be made later, was a satisfying
breakfast to Greta. She welcomed the order to go down the lake to the
cottages, get the clothes from the one family who had the courage to
give their washing to Mrs. Klein, and see what other cottages were
occupied. Greta was to ask for more work.

As the patched clothes Greta wore were neither whole nor clean, Mrs.
Klein brought out Greta’s best dress, a hideous plaid gingham with a
tight waist and a full skirt, poorly gathered on. The only reason for
this was that people would be more likely to send the washing if the
girl asking the work looked fairly clean herself. “This ought to be
washed, Mother,” said Greta, though in German.

“And wear it out!” replied her mother. “Talk your best English to
them and get me two washings if you can. It is a lucky thing that you
learned the English before you were sick.”

That was always a funny thing to Greta, that in some way she had
learned English before she was sick, that sickness that was brain
fever, she was told and made her forget all about when her little
brother had been born and made her speak German so poorly, and yet she
could speak English! She must have gone to school some time, though her
mother would give her no satisfaction about when or where. “You have
had enough schooling,” was all that she would say.

Nothing in the way of English papers or books were ever brought into
the house, yet Greta saw both sometimes at the cottages where she took
back or gathered the clothes. Her eyes devoured them while she waited,
and if she edged near some table she could read a few lines. Once a
woman asked her if she liked to read, and on the girl’s reply that
she did, she handed her one of the newspapers. “We’ve read that. It’s
several days old, for we have to get our papers by mail, but the news
is fairly late.”

Greta was glad to get anything to read, whether the news was late or
old. In the shelter of the willow, before she took out the clothes for
which her mother was waiting, she read almost every word and put the
paper in her hiding place, a hollow tree near by. But a storm came up
that very night. Her hollow tree was felled, the paper blown out and
destroyed! That was a calamity of the preceding summer.

But Greta was beginning to feel that she must rouse herself a little
from the conditions at home. Her father’s drunkenness was growing
unbearable. Always of a cruel disposition, with a feeling that he had a
right to beat his wife or children as freely as he beat his horse, he
was often dangerous, Greta thought. How long her mother would stand it
was a question, yet she seemed to take it as a matter of course, though
doing her share of the quarreling. The German Bible was a help in the
worst of Greta’s troubles. Her great-grandmother must have been a good
woman. But some time she would go away and then try to earn money to
help her mother and the children.

Now Greta Klein was a pretty girl. Had she been dressed as well as
Jean Gordon she might have looked not unlike the impulsive Jean. But
her large, dark brown eyes had a sad look in them and her face was
worn; for while the hard work she had been forced to do had given her a
certain strength, there had been enough of it to amount to over-work,
which is not good for growing girls. Her mother said that she would be
sixteen on her next birthday and that would be on the fifteenth, for
which Greta was having plans.

Again the rowboat made its way out into the lake. Again Greta took a
look at the pile of lumber on the peninsula. Perhaps the boys would
want their clothes washed, but she would not tell her mother about it.
It would be terrible to go there for them.

Greta made her way to the cottage, where an energetic, keen-eyed woman
answered her knocking. “After this please come to the back door, Greta.
I always have the clothes there for you. And I see that I shall have
to have them done every week for the children get so dirty. Please be
careful with the colored clothes. Last week that red handkerchief ran
into Buddy’s blouse and that will never do.”

“I will try to be careful, Mrs. Smith.”

Greta took the large bundle which Mrs. Smith gave her. It was too large
to carry around. Why hadn’t she thought to go to the other houses
first? “Are there any other families where you think Mother could get
washing to do, Mrs. Smith?” she asked.

“Yes. Mrs. Bliss next door wants some one. They came day before
yesterday. If you like you may leave the clothes on the back porch
while you go to see her. I’ll keep an eye on them, of course.”

“Oh, thank you, I’ll hurry.”

“Poor child,” thought Mrs. Smith, “she looks half tired to death all
the time. But I couldn’t have her coming to the front door, and I must
have my clothes done properly!”

Fortunately, the cottages were closely set and along the shore. Two big
bundles Greta lugged along, knowing that her mother would be satisfied
to add another washing, and thinking to herself that it was all she
could do herself, especially if she spent her birthday as she intended.
From her window Mrs. Smith was watching her, again wishing that she had
not spoken so sharply. Then she had a thought.

“Greta! Greta Klein!” she called, just as Greta was arranging the
bundles in the boat. Greta looked up and saw Mrs. Smith waving at her.
“Wait a minute, Greta.”

It was several minutes, while Greta stood at the home-made, funny
little dock that ran out narrowly into the lake. Then Mrs. Smith came
running down to her with a bundle in her hand. “I thought that you
might like some sugar cookies to eat on the way home. I want you to eat
them yourself, remember, and I’m going to ask you if you did!”

Greta smiled and looked surprised.

“And here is a book that I found in the cottage. A young cousin of
mine left it here last summer. If you can’t read it,--though you speak
such good English that I suppose you can,--you will find some pretty
pictures through it. It’s a story of girls about your age.”

“Oh, thank you, Mrs. Smith, very, very much. I can read it and I
haven’t any books of my own! You are so kind!” Greta’s eyes were full
of tears at the unexpected warmth in Mrs. Smith’s tones. She had not
minded much being told to go to the back door. She ought to have
thought of it herself.

A happier girl rowed the boat back. She had a book of her own. She
would read it on her birthday. The only thing that troubled her was how
to keep it from being found and destroyed. She would hide it in the
barn this time, or perhaps she could get it into the attic, where the
Bible was. They let that alone.

The sugar cookies were good and with them was an apple. The fruit on
the Klein place was very limited now. Greta thought of saving it for
her brother, but questions would be asked. She would do what Mrs. Smith
told her to do. The book she could scarcely wait to open. Suppose
something should happen to it before she read it! She was almost
tempted to stop before taking home the clothes; but concealing the
volume as well as she could, she lugged home the bundles from a rude
dock nearer than the one by the willow.

Fortune favored her. Her mother and the children were out in the
pasture. Something was the matter with the horse. It lay on the ground,
she saw, but she flew to the attic with her treasure and tucked it
under the ragged quilt and old comforter that covered the cot where she
slept now. Even in the cold winter she often came here, for she was
afraid of her father when he came home so intoxicated; and sometimes
her mother would bring the smaller children to her there.

She supposed that her father had gone to see if a veterinary surgeon,
the “horse-doctor,” would come, and with such opportunity she
hesitated about leaving the book. But no, her mother would be angry if
she did not start the washing, late as it was. She ran down the stairs
and out into the shed for the tubs, unfortunately colliding slightly
with Jacob Klein when she opened the shed door quickly and stepped out.

Out of sorts about the horse and irritated by the sight of Greta and
her little bump against him, he roared out loudly in German, asking
her what she was doing and why she wasn’t doing her work, enforcing
his words with a blow that sent her stumbling to the other side of
the shed, where she hit her head against the metal tub hanging there
and fell unconscious. The man hesitated, with all his brutality, this
was the first time that Greta had not been able to dodge a blow. He
recalled his wife’s threat, a potent one, but the girl would be up in a
minute. What was he going to do about that horse?

When Greta regained consciousness, she was lying on the old cot in the
front room and some one was leaning over her. It was the horse-doctor!
“There; she’s coming around all right, Mrs. Klein. Tell her to keep
her head tied up if she doesn’t want a scar, and give her some more of
that medicine. I’m glad Jake told me about her before I started with
nothing but medicine for his horse. To tell the truth, Mrs. Klein, I
thought he was more anxious about the nag than about the girl. He said
that his oldest girl ran into a tub and cut her head and fell down in a
faint. How did it happen?”

“I didn’t see it. She slipped and fell, Jake said. He was in the house.
I was watching the horse.” This was all that Mrs. Klein would tell, in
her broken English, and Greta had no desire to tell more, though she
asked, “Will I have to wash to-day?”

“I should say not,” said the old doctor. “Get her to bed.” With this,
the doctor picked up a German paper that had come, as one did every
week to Jacob Klein, and prepared to remain until that child was put to
bed. Such unfeeling parents he never saw.

Greta, meanwhile, thought of the book. She did not want her mother in
the attic. She sat on the edge of the cot, dizzy and sick. But she had
often worked when she felt as much so. “I can get upstairs alone,” she
said, “I feel better now.” And upstairs she went, though slowly, taking
the bottle of medicine and a spoon, with a glass of water which her
mother handed her. To think of it! It was almost worth the blow to be
alone in her attic. She would feel better after a while, and read!

That night there was an unusually loud quarrel in the room below
Greta’s attic. “What did I tell you? You leave Greta alone unless you
want to go to jail. I will tell what I know!” This was the substance of
the German words that Greta Klein heard. What had her father done? Her
mother must care a little for her or she would not want her husband to
leave her alone. No, it was just that Greta could work! So the woman
went on to say. While he was drinking himself to death whenever he
could get anything to drink, Greta could do the work and earn the money
by washing and ironing. Jacob was to let Greta alone. She would manage
her. “She isn’t your child,--you are not her father!” Greta heard, and
sat up in bed to listen.

But after that the voices were lowered, and Greta heard the door of
their bedroom closed tightly. Her own door was ajar. That she rose to
close and latch as the old-fashioned fastening would permit.

If what Mrs. Klein said was true, it explained a good deal. Probably
her mother had been married before. And possibly, possibly, she was
only a step-daughter to Mrs. Klein herself. Greta felt ashamed that she
would be glad if that were true. And oh, how good it was,--not Jacob
Klein’s daughter! Then her name would not be Klein, even. Would she
dare ask her mother about it? Mrs. Klein was quite capable of telling
her that she had misunderstood what was said. Where had Greta gotten
these different ideas of what was square and right to do? All at once
she knew that she was different. But her head ached so. She had not
been able to read the story. She could think better to-morrow.




CHAPTER XI

THOSE “UNINTERESTED” PARENTS


“Girls,” said the president of the seven sibyls impressively, “do
you realize that it is too late for us to make any money to amount
to anything this year? I mean the school year, of course. The Black
Wizards have to make some; Billy told me, and you and I know what for,
or we haven’t had much trouble in making a pretty good guess. One of
the church societies is selling that candy we thought we could get hold
of. Our fudge goes off like hot cakes when we make any, but school is
nearly out and I’m proud to think that every one of the S. P.’s gets
out of finals, and that in spite of our new club and all our doings!”

“We had our scholarship up all the year before,” remarked Phoebe.

“Phoebe is nothing, if not frank,” laughed Bess.

“Traitoress!” hissed Fran, in such good imitation of a reading
which they had recently heard at school that they all applauded but
Phoebe, who declared that she thought the truth might just as well be
acknowledged. “I couldn’t have brought up any low grades while we were
doing all the extra things and taking the early hikes and all.”

“No, neither could I, Phoebe, you’re right,” said Jean. “All of which
goes to prove----”

“‘That music is both elevating and refining’.”

“Stop your nonsense, Phoebe! I’m trying to get something across.”

“Oh. Sorry, Madame President. The subject was making money, I remember.”

“Exactly. The time has come to call on our worthy parents with the
request that they will advance the money for a tent and let us go
camping as soon as school is out. We have enough money in the treasury
for the books we positively have to have or think we have to have, as
my father says, so that’s all right, and we can have a real campaign in
the fall. Nan’s father says that we ought to start one for a real good
school library, since we are interested in books. He thinks that we
could get some good gifts from the people around town and that perhaps
we could stir the school board up to do something, maybe get the people
to vote them more money for it, though taxes are bad enough as it is,
he says.”

“My father says that he will take it up in the paper, too, girls,” Nan
added, “and the few copies of the school paper that we’ve been getting
out with the boys have gone all over town. I’ve heard all sorts of
things about the S. P.’s and Molly’s and Phoebe’s drawings. They think
we’re ‘real cute’ so far! But let’s show everybody we can be more than
funny.”

“Hear, hear!”

The girls were not in their club room for this called meeting. In spite
of windows and cross draughts, the fact remained that the attic was
directly under the roof. June suns often made it quite warm. It was
time to think of camping. Just now they were all in Jean’s big swing,
three on a seat, Jean standing between them.

“Molly, tell the girls what Grace wrote.”

Molly drew a folded paper from her notebook. “This is a sheet from
Grace’s letter,” said she. “She wrote to all of us, and this is what
she said to me: ‘Molly, I just can’t write you a separate letter, have
scarcely a minute free with all the last doings. I shall be a wreck,
but if you promise that you really will keep things going at first
yourselves, I’ll only be too glad to spend a few weeks in the woods or
on the water. I told Mother that last week and I’m surprised that you
wrote me about it. Perhaps she forgot to tell you.’ That’s all about
that.”

“Why, how funny!” cried Phoebe. “It’s wonderful that Grace will do it,
but why did your mother ask her? Did you tell her how much we wanted to
go camping?”

“Only what we agreed, that we would talk about girls’ camps and how
much fun it must be, and send for catalogues about tents, and talk
about raising money.” Molly laughed herself at the array of hints which
almost any discerning parent might take.

“Bless you, Molly, you’re the most transparent little dear in the
world. You probably talked in your sleep, too.”

“I do sometimes,” Molly acknowledged. But for once the S. P.’s were
not right. Parents sometimes make plans for their children and wiser
ones than those same children often make. Seven fathers were having
a glorious time in planning a little surprise, to say nothing of as
many mothers, who were using the telephone or calling on each other
occasionally while the girls were in school. It was a generous little
plot against the S. P.’s, and for their benefit.

“I asked Mother about it and she said that she _had_ written to Grace
about it, since we all were talking about what fun it would be to camp.
She thought it could be managed, if not right away, probably soon after
Grace’s Commencement is over. She and Father are going on to it, you
know.”

“Then all we’ll have to do is to get everybody else’s permission, and
I’m pretty sure if Grace is with us, and we don’t go too far away,
they’ll let us.” Jean’s voice had a happy lilt.

“Wait, Jean,” said Molly. “Mother told me that Grace had already
written to her about it, but that she thought it too soon to make it
definite and there were other reasons why she had not said anything.
Grace said that one of the senior girls had been a junior councilor at
an eastern camp for girls, that another had a troop of girl scouts in
her home town and still another knew all about the camp fire girls. So
Grace will know a lot of things for us to do. I wish Grace was going to
be at home next year!”

“Is she going to teach or something?”

“Worse. She’s going to be married.”

The Black Wizards were behaving in a most mysterious fashion in these
days. The girls were quite sure that they had not seen them that day
upon the river road, or they would have suspected that their secret was
known or surmised.

After school they would disappear with great suddenness. On street
corners or in the school grounds they held secret confabs when they
met. Sometimes a machine would be waiting for them after school. As
boys do, they would pile into it and drive off with more than the usual
air of a good time. Indeed, they made an effort to repress their usual
high spirits and noise, a thing which in itself would have called
attention to them. The girls saw no more lumber going out of town, but
that was because the early and late hikes had stopped, or possibly
because the lumber had all been delivered. It would have been fun to
find out where they were building, but the girls were too busy with
other things. It was not directly on any of the main roads, at least,
where they drove with their parents at odd times. Miss Haynes had
announced her plans early enough for them not to count upon her, but
they were quite content to rest their hopes on Grace French, who was so
attractive, and engaged!

With much glee the girls made fudge that evening of the called meeting,
one batch after another, more than one kettle on at a time, each in
charge of a separate S. P., since too many cooks do often “spoil the
broth.”

“After saying that we’ll have to give up making money, here Jean puts
us at making candy to sell to-morrow!” whimsically Phoebe complained.

“We need just a little more for that set of nature books,” said Jean.
“Besides, what cruelty not to supply those Black Wizard carpenters with
something to eat while they work! Do you realize that to-morrow is the
last day for us, except when we go to get our grades? Now, Molly, you
can start the hard molasses taffy. We’ve got enough fudge, after we
get that last beaten. Leigh, did you bring that oiled paper? And oh,
Nan, did you put down how much we paid for the sugar? Mother gave us
the cream. While the last cools, we’ve got to make the little S. P.
cornucopias, if we stay up half the night to do it! Don’t you think
that we could charge ten cents for them instead of five?”

“Poor Wizards!” cried Molly.

“It’s not just the Wizards we sell to. Well, all right, but don’t fill
them as full as you did last time. Our candy is just as good as what
you buy in a box, and we give more for the money now than they do at
the church sales. Billy said so.”

“Jean’s getting stingy,” giggled Bess. “But if ‘Billy said so,’ it must
be all right.”

Jean, already flushed with the cooking and the warm evening grew a
little rosier. Billy had managed to see a good deal of her lately,
whenever Wizard affairs permitted it. But there wasn’t anything “silly”
about it. Probably she’d better not quote Billy any more.

After the noon meal the next day, the girls took their candy to school.
Half of it they sold at once. The rest they had for sale after school,
outside of the school grounds. Six of the Wizards were climbing into a
Ford sedan when Molly and Jean ran with a school bag full of the little
packages. “Don’t you want something to eat on your ride?” asked Molly
of Jimmy Standish.

“I believe I do,” grinned Jimmy, feeling in his pocket. “I just bought
some at noon, but I need nourishment already.”

“I need all my nickels,” said Billy Baxter, “but as you said at noon,
Jean, that this is the last chance, I’ll indulge, too. Give me two,
if you please, one fudge, the other that good hard stuff that lasts
longer.”

“Molly’s going to find out how to make the kind you eat off of sticks,
Billy,” said Jean, as she picked out two of the fattest looking
cornucopias she could find and handed them to him.

“That cornucopia shape is the most deceiving thing, Jean,” said Jimmy.
“It’s on the same style of having the best on top. You think you still
have a lot, and there’s only one measley piece left.”

“Measley, Jimmy?” asked Jean, as Jimmy put a piece of fudge in his
mouth.

“I’ll take that back, Jean. It’s good, and you’re the little girls
that can get money out of a customer! So long.”

It was great to have the freedom instead of taking the examinations.
Their parents congratulated them and expressed pride that they had made
high grades, but the girls were surprised at the lack of interest they
showed when the subject of camping was definitely put before them.

“Why, I can’t get Father and Mother interested at all,” Jean
complained. “I don’t know what’s gotten into them! They haven’t any
great objections, as I thought they might have, but I can’t get them to
do anything.”

“Same thing at our house,” said Leigh Dudley. “I thought that Mother,
at least, would be interested, but she asked if I thought Grace were
old enough to take care of us, and where we thought we’d like to camp,
and said that she would think about it; but when I asked her if we
could pick out the sort of tent we wanted, she said, ‘Well, it wouldn’t
do any harm,’ even if we didn’t go!”

“We ought to have begun to talk it up earlier,” Fran declared. “But all
is not lost. We’ll just have to keep it before them, in a very nice
way, of course. Teasing is N. G. at our house.”

“Also at ours,” said Nan.

“Especially tell them how safe it will be near home and how much better
off we are than girls who have to go a long way off from home, pay a
big railroad fare and aren’t familiar with the country as we are here,
to know about snakes and things.”

“Better not mention snakes!”

“This sounds awful, girls, as if we were in the habit of ‘working’ our
folks!” Thus Jean.

“It isn’t ‘working’ them, Jean,” said Fran, “but you do have to use
some _tact_ to get the grown-ups interested. And we do want to go, and
we think it will be all right. Now if we can only get them to thinking
so, too!”

“All right, Fran.”

It may be imagined, however, how embarrassing all this was to parents
who were planning not only to let the girls go, but to have supplies
ready by a certain time and break the news in the way of a surprise.

A few ideas of the girls, however, were able to fit in nicely toward
the common goal, as when no objection was made to “hiking suits.”
Middies and bloomers became popular for the summer outfit. The mothers
had wondered how the matter of clothes was to be handled, if the girls
were to be ready. Fathers soberly commented on how sensible girls
were getting in their choice of clothes, and the girls, accustomed to
teasing remarks, thought nothing of it.

Meanwhile preparations went merrily on. “It is scarcely more expensive
than sending our girls on some trip,” said Mr. Standish one early June
evening, as he drove with Mr. French, coming into town along the river
road. “I think that they will be enthusiastic over it, though you can
not always tell about young folks.”

“I can not imagine their not being happy over it, Standish.”




CHAPTER XII

THE “GRAND” SURPRISE


No one felt like working while waiting for the final day of receiving
grade cards. Senior affairs and Jimmy’s graduation concerned Nan and
the Standish household, though Jimmy seemed to have little concern
about it. But then, Jimmy wasn’t a girl, with gowns and slippers and
other things to think about.

S. P. affairs had a lull the first of the last week of school, till
Judge Gordon asked Jean at breakfast Wednesday morning if the club
really had a name, and Jean told him that it had too many already, but
the Stealthy Prowlers was the only one that was appropriate to their
outdoor purposes. “The trouble is that we decided on the initials
first.”

The judge gave Jean a comical look. “No doubt you had a good reason,”
he said. “Perhaps if you had a respectable motto it would help. I can’t
say that I admire your name.”

“I don’t either, Daddy. What could we have for a motto?”

The judge went into the other room and got out his Latin lexicon from
the book-cases there. Jean did not disturb him while he turned the
pages and scribbled a little on the back of an envelope.

“Here is one that you might have,” he said at last, turning over the
envelope and writing the words in a large hand.

“If you must ‘prowl,’ you might say, ‘_Pro bono, non malo,
circumcursamus_.’ It means ‘we prowl, or run around for good and not
for evil.’

“Or here is another Latin sentence that might do. Of course, I’m making
them up. It isn’t from the classics. ‘_Bonum non malum insequimur_’
sounds still better, but only means ‘we follow good, not evil.’ How do
you like these?”

“Fine. We need some mottos for our club room anyhow.”

“Why not ‘_Sans peur_’?” suggested Mrs. Gordon, who had followed her
husband and daughter into the living room.

“Oh, Mother!” cried Jean. “Why didn’t I think of that before? Here
we’ve been studying French and everything! It begins with S. P., you
know.”

“Sure enough,” smiled Judge Gordon, who did not mind in the least that
Jean showed more enthusiasm over her mother’s suggestion than his own.
“Why don’t you make that the name of your club as well?”

“The girls will like it,” said Jean, sitting down in a chair with a
beatific expression. “And the boys will be surprised. Since the party
they’ve been calling us the Sibyl Prophetesses or Priestesses, and
Billy said, ‘Come now Jean, isn’t “sibyl” a part of it’?”

“_Sans peur_ will be a fine motto for you wild hikers,” concluded Judge
Gordon, rising and patting the young shoulder as he passed Jean to
leave the room for the hall. “I must go to the office. Better call a
meeting, Jean, and change Stealthy Prowlers to something better.”

“The boys said that the ‘Seven Sibyls’ would be better, with S. S. for
our initials, but I told them that we expected to be more than seven
members after a while.”

“I’d suggest ‘_sans souci_,’ ‘without a care,’ then, for those
initials,” said Mrs. Gordon. The judge was out of the house by this
time.

“We have to stay S. P., Mother, for a very good reason,” said Jean,
thinking of Billy and her first committing of the girls to a club,
“but the sibyl part is only for initiations and things like that. Each
sibyl has charge of a department, and it is a very good scheme. But you
mustn’t tell anything I tell you.”

“Never,” promised Mrs. Gordon.

Some of the girls were not so much in favor of making the motto the
name of the club, but they were agreed that even if _sans peur_
remained only the motto, it gave the excuse for calling themselves the
S. P. Club. “I move,” said Phoebe, “that we decide on our pin and have
it an American eagle, because we have so many around our lakes, and
then have a little pennant or banner or some little place in the pin
with ‘_Sans Peur_’ on it.”

“The eagle will stand for our bird hunting, too,” said Bess.

“It is a good motto, too,” said Molly, “if we are off camping. We can
add it all if we want to, ‘_Sans peur et sans reproche_.’ Not to be
afraid and not to do anything to bring reproach isn’t so bad for us to
remember. Girls, Mother said to-day that she thought it pretty sure,
maybe she said sure, that everybody will let us go!”

Thursday came, with its graduation exercises. Friday saw the girls
going after their reports. There seemed to be some repressed excitement
among the Black Wizards, though everything was so irregular anyway that
it was not particularly noticeable.

“I hope you girls have a good time to-morrow,” said Billy with a grin
at Jean, as he left the schoolgrounds with Danny Pierce.

“We’re not going on a hike or anything, Billy,” replied Jean, but Billy
just nodded and went on.

“Billy looked so funny when he said that,” said Jean to Molly. “Do you
suppose he meant anything was going to happen? What could the boys do?”

“I’m sure I don’t know. The boys are going to entertain us when they
get their camp finished, I’m sure. But they would send us invitations,
I should think.”

“Of course they would,” said Nan, “though, knowing Jimmy, I will say
that they can do some very unexpected things.”

“And Jimmy would say the same thing about girls, Nan.”

“Yes, he would. Oh, Jean, I wish we could afford to get our pins now,
don’t you? But the books come first, and we’ll need all we can raise
for the camping equipment, though we can count on help for that.”

“Never mind, Nan; we might lose our pins camping, and we may change our
minds again, and there wouldn’t be any chance to show them to anybody
till school begins!”

The girls laughed over Jean’s conclusions and agreed that they had
some point. The groups of boys and girls separated for the most part.
The next move was taking home the reports, some to praise, some to
disappointment, as it always happens. But the Black Wizards and the S.
P.’s had some pride of scholarship.

Saturday morning dawned as a beautiful June day can, clear, bright,
fragrant with flowers, musical with bird songs and fairly cool with a
fresh breeze from the lakes. “I wish we had planned to do something
to-day,” said Jean to her father. “We were so lazy yesterday, after
Commencement.”

“Drive out into the country with me,” said the judge. “I’m leaving
about nine o’clock. Your mother’s going with me. Like to take any of
the girls along?”

“Oh, yes, of course. But we can only get five in the back part, three
on the back seat.”

The judge laughed. “You are a great girl. You want the whole seven, I
suppose. Why don’t you call up Leigh and ask her if her folks can’t
come along? We might make a picnic of it. I’m going to look at a piece
of land and I wouldn’t mind having Dudley along.”

“But doesn’t he have to be at the bank?”

“Don’t I have to be at my office? Presidents of banks, my dear, aren’t
really as necessary to the daily job as cashiers and a few others.”

“How lucky for them. Why, do I dare suggest anything like a picnic to
the Dudleys? And is Mother willing?”

“Ask her.”

“I will put up a lunch if Mrs. Dudley will,” said Mrs. Gordon with an
expression of amusement that Jean did not understand at the time. In a
moment Jean was at the telephone.

“Why, isn’t that luck for you, Leigh!” Jean was heard exclaiming. “Has
just asked you if you wouldn’t like a ride into the country? Well,
anybody would on a day like this. Whom do you want to take? Phoebe, I
suppose? All right. I’ll get Nan and Molly, then, if you want to take
the rest.” Jean flew out of the open front door without stopping to
explain, for she knew that her parents could overhear what she said to
Leigh.

Mrs. Gordon was at the telephone herself as soon as Jean had gone. She
sent several messages rapidly, but was in the kitchen packing a large
basket when Jean returned. “My, you’re taking a lot of things!” Jean
exclaimed.

“With the Dudleys, my dear, I want to have something to offer, you see.
It is a good thing I did my baking yesterday.”

“Why, so you did. When did you ever do that before? I’m glad now that
you wouldn’t cut that cake for supper. And I don’t suppose the girls
will have a chance to bring much. I told Nan and Molly that I’d take
enough for them. Was that all right?”

“Perfectly. Make a few more cheese sandwiches, Jean, and we’ll soon be
ready. I think I’ll put in those cookies, too. We can buy something
for Sunday if we’re all eaten out of baked things.” Mrs. Gordon said
nothing about the fat meat loaf in the bottom of the basket or the
chicken which she had fried while Jean was at Nan’s Friday afternoon.
She looked like a little older edition of Jean as she hurried around
with flushed cheeks.

Presently they were all out upon the pretty river road, the Dudley
car overtaking them. The girls leaned out to call to each other, as
the machines drew abreast for a short distance. “I think we’ll go on
to what the youngsters call Baldy for our lunch, Dudley. What do you
think?” asked Judge Gordon.

“You could not find a better place,” Mr. Dudley replied. “Take the
lead. I’ll follow.”

So the two gentlemen were not looking up the “piece of land” at once.
The girls were quite satisfied, but wished that they had thought to
bring their bathing suits. They crossed the river by the big bridge,
took a roundabout route by fairly good roads through the beautiful,
undulating country with its frequent pools and tiny lakes. Stretches of
woodland or pastures and fields were equally attractive, but at length
they came to the thick woods where a road ran in for a little way, then
changed from lane to footpath.

“Isn’t this the grandest woods?” asked Jean, whose favorite adjective
was “grand.” The other girls agreed that it was and that it was a shame
they could not come more often to this lake. Yet it was too far for
an ordinary hike and the machines of the parents were not available,
as a rule. These facts were mentioned, and the girls did not notice a
lad who viewed the party from a woodsy distance and then noiselessly
slipped away to give the word.

The two fathers carried the two large baskets, while the two mothers
and girls brought the light blankets used in the cars in cool weather.
These would do to spread upon the ground. Various small articles which
had not found room in the basket were distributed. “My, but we’re going
to have a big lunch!” cried Nan. “It’s a regular S. P. picnic. I wish
my mother and father could ever get away for one. Poor Dad! Always at
the office!”

The girls ran on ahead, as girls do. The mothers and fathers exchanged
glances. “It worked out better than I was afraid it would,” said Mrs.
Gordon. “Jean doesn’t suspect a thing.”

“I’m relieved that the secrecy is over, though,” said Mrs. Dudley with
a smile. “Now we’ll see how they like it. I hope everybody is here. You
took us for a fine ride around, Judge Gordon.”

“I tried to give everybody time enough, Mrs. Dudley.” The judge looked
at his watch. “Just eleven. They’ll be here. I suppose that the boys
have been having their scouts out to watch us and report. Jimmy
Standish was the only one who had to wait, on Nan’s account, and drive
his father and mother.”

It took probably ten minutes of walking through the woods by the pretty
trail before they came to the sloping shores of the lake that stretched
its shining ripples so invitingly before them. “Why, Mother!” exclaimed
Jean, looking to the left toward a cleared space, “Someone has been
building a summer cottage! Oh, it must be the Black Wizards!” For Judge
Gordon gave a little whistle and from behind the house the boys came
running, Jimmy and Billy in the lead.

“How do you like the house, Jean?” asked Billy, all grins.

“Grand! What a beautiful surprise! It will beat our Attic Party to
smithereens! Why, this is wonderful of you, to get up a surprise
picnic like this. Oh, it’s a cute little cottage. I hope you will take
us inside of it.”

“We certainly will.”

The other boys were in similar conversation with the other S.
P.’s--but here came other folks around the house. The various fathers
and mothers! The S. P.’s gasped. The boys had not left them out in
celebrating the finishing of their summer camp! All the S. P. parents,
all the Black Wizard parents, so far as they could tell in a hasty
glance at the group, were there.

But Judge Gordon was coming to the front and raising his hand. “I think
that some explanation is due these surprised girls of ours. They ought
to know that their energy and that of our boys has made some of us
parents realize what should be done to help them. Among other things
we have seen that the outdoor movements are a good thing, properly
managed, and we decided to help a little there.

“Then it happens that both boys and girls have been talking about
books, and it made us see that there was not even a proper school
library of reference books to say nothing of a library in the town
where they could gather for reading. Your little nature library, girls,
and the boys’ few books on adventure and history have started more than
you knew. Some of us fathers got together the other day. We are all of
us, boys and girls and older boys and girls, going to start raising
money together next fall, or even before, for a public library; and
probably we shall not stop there, with our progressive town paper to
back us.” The judge waved his hand at Mr. Standish as he said this.

“And whether S. P. refers to sugar plums, sweet peas, seraphic peris
or a sane purpose and secure partnership, we give them the credit for
calling our attention to the needs of our little city. They have shown
us _Stirring Possibilities_ and have already assured us some _Social
Progress_! I understand that they are intending to enlarge their club
with that purpose. Jean, can you tell us what your club stands for?”

Jean, absolutely surprised, thought for a moment that she could not say
a word. It was dreadful of her father to ask her to make a speech. But
while she hesitated, led out from the midst of the girls by Nan, her
father said, “No speech, Jean; but you are the president, I believe.”

“Yes, sir. Why,--some of us a good while ago had been wishing that we
knew more about what other girls were doing and something suddenly
decided us to have a club. That was all. Then, of course, having
started it, we kept on and Miss Haynes helped us find out about a great
many things, and we decided to raise money for a library. First it was
just our own and then we wondered if we couldn’t do something about a
school library. But it is wonderful that all of you are thinking about
a town library and all I can say for us girls is that we will help all
we can, and make fudge by the--quart, and everything! And thank you for
the surprise of this picnic.” Jean’s usually quick mind could think of
nothing more to say and she stepped back in some confusion.

“Just a moment, girls, now that you are getting used to surprises,”
said the judge. “I believe that I will ask the editor to tell you whose
summer cottage this is,--Mr. Standish.”

Jean gasped again. Now she knew. This was not the Black Wizard shack.
The tall judge stepped back and the wiry, slight, editor, Nan’s
father, stepped forward from a group. “This should all be very
informal,” said he, “as it is a picnic occasion. It seems to fall to me
to announce to our girls that the S. P. Club owns this little cottage
and that it is a gift from the S. P. fathers and mothers, who have
fitted it up very simply. The boys helped build it and I assure you
that we all had a time of it to keep it a secret, but I believe that
it was done. We hope that it will be a happy surprise to you and that
you may have a very good time of it this summer. The boys want me to
announce to you that they, too, have a camp about a mile around the
lake from here and that after you have looked at your new house, the
picnic will be held there.”

As Mr. Standish closed, Jean looked at her father, who nodded
encouragingly. She felt stunned as well as happy to know that this
summer camp was theirs, but her mind had been working this time. “Oh,”
she began impulsively, “you know how we must feel, Mr. Standish, more
like crying for joy! I couldn’t say anything if I weren’t the president
and have to. We’ll all be thanking our fathers and mothers separately,
and every one of the boys for helping do this. So all I’m saying now
is just thank you, everybody!”

Jean turned to her mother and put her head on that comfortable shoulder
for a minute, but a sudden thought made her swallow the lump in her
throat and she turned to Nan and the rest of the astonished, ecstatic
girls. “Oh, say, girls, let me whisper something to you,” and she
whispered to Nan, who nodded and passed the word on to the nearest
girl, while Jean told someone else. That message no one but the S. P.’s
were ever to know. “Let’s never tell the boys that we knew they were
building,” said Jean. It was not much, to be sure, but no unpleasant
note of rivalry could ever be struck between the S. P.’s and the Black
Wizards!

The commotion now began. The girls were beckoned into the little house
that was theirs by the parents, who wanted to see how they liked it.
The boys scattered, some of them taking the baskets and wraps brought
by the Dudleys and Gordons. These were carried to the other camp by
boat, for a little fleet of row-boats, canoes and one small motor boat
was waiting to take the picnickers to where the other “opening” was to
be celebrated.

“Daddy, I forgot to tell them about our motto. And you thought up the
best name yet for us, a Social Progress Club.”

“That daughter, was on the spur of the moment. Was it too much to give
you such a big surprise with no warning?”

“Oh, it is just too wonderful. I can’t tell you how happy I am, and I
know the other girls feel the same way. Just look at them!”

The summer cottage stood facing the path and lane in a measure, but
with its back to the lake. It was explained that the road was to be
widened, to permit of driving to the house with supplies and that it
seemed better to have the front face in that direction. “But your
screened sleeping porch is toward the lake,” one of the fathers showed
them, “and your main room out upon the water.”

Neat, trim, painted white, with golden brown storm shutters, and
made of boards closely set, the little house justified the girls’
exclamations. It was not plastered inside, but it was tight and snug
against ordinary winds. One immense room with a pantry and a large
closet opening at one side, and the long sleeping porch across the
back, constituted the interior. “That big closet, girls, could be
made into a bathroom,” said Mrs. Dudley, “if a water system could be
arranged some time. But you will be glad of all the hooks in there,
now, and a place for your luggage. Be careful of that coal-oil stove,
and the big range will keep you warm in a cold spell. There is money
for a little set of dishes and some kitchenware, and we thought that it
would be more fun for you to buy it yourselves and fix up the place. Do
you like the color the boys painted the floor?”

The girls liked everything; what fun it was going to be, to buy things
for their summer cottage.

“Notice,” said one mother, “that there are keys and also bolts on all
the doors. We feel much safer to have you in a house like this. With
Grace here and the boys only a mile away, you ought to be safe. Jimmy
said something about rigging up a telephone, and I hope they do it.”

“To think that our fathers, as well as the boys, drove some of the
nails in this!” rather sentimentally said Leigh. “I’d like to stay
right out here to-night!”

“You would find it rather inconvenient, Leigh,” laughed her mother.
“We did not like to buy blankets and things and leave them here. There
is time enough.”

So there was. After lingering looks all around, the girls were willing
to leave in the boats for the other camp, where they were shown all
over the little peninsula which the boys had chosen as a site. The
boys’ “Shack,” as they called it was not as smooth as the girls’ and as
yet unpainted, but it was well built, for they had had the assistance
of carpenters on this as on the other. The main room was more open and
the boys would sleep in bunks. “Got lots of windows, you see, and if it
rains in, it can’t hurt our floor.”

“Lookout for what you call your port holes, Billy,” said Nan, to Billy,
who had made this remark. “You want to keep the rain from your bunks at
least.”

The picnic was held outdoors, on a slope which overlooked the lake.
There were not so many Black Wizard parents as the girls had at first
supposed, but most of the sisters had come, and the S. P.’s decided
to invite some of them to visit their camp during the weeks there, if
Grace were willing. It would be such a shame to keep all that fun to
themselves. “We could have them all, in relays, couldn’t we, Jean?”
asked Nan.

“We certainly could, and several are the right age to join the S. P.’s.
Daddy just told me that he and Mr. Standish and Mr. Dudley and Mr.
Baxter have bought up a lot of the land around this end of the lake, to
make it safe and keep it wild for us, and to put up a few more little
shacks if we want any more campers. I’m so stunned over it that I don’t
know who I am!”

The girls, in spite of their dazed condition which they claimed, threw
themselves into the boys’ celebration heartily and raved as girls are
supposed to do over the location and plans. Nor did they forget to be
sincere in their thanks for the Wizards’ part in the great surprise.
“It was perfectly grand!” cried Jean, with a sandwich in one hand and a
chicken wing in the other.




CHAPTER XIII

THE S. P.’S DISCOVER GRETA


Greta wakened to the sound of rain, beating upon the old roof and
leaking into her attic. The first drops beat a tattoo within the old
tin pan that she kept under the worst leak. What had happened? Oh,
yes. She remembered, though her head had stopped aching. It was sore,
though, under the bandage. She heard the children downstairs only
faintly. Why, they must be up and about, all of the family,--and no one
had called her. What Greta did not know was that the “horse-doctor” had
warned Mrs. Klein in no uncertain words that Greta had had a dangerous
fall and must be allowed to rest for fear of serious consequences. “And
you know that it might be looked into, how she got it,” he had said,
for he thought that he noted suspicious anxiety on her part. Jacob
Klein’s character was not unknown in these parts.

With her foot Greta felt that her precious book was safely there. She
wondered if she could think of a better place. How soon would she be
called? It was so cloudy that she had no way of knowing what time it
was. The old clock downstairs did not strike and half the time it did
not even go.

After a little she heard her mother telling the children to go back and
coming, lumbering, up the attic stairs. Greta’s big eyes were fixed on
her as she came into the low room, complaining in voluble German that
it had to be a rainy day and that the doctor had said Greta could not
work. She would have the washings to start herself. A cup of coffee and
a piece of bread, broken from a loaf, were put down on a chair by the
bed.

Greta expected to be ordered up then, but no, her mother turned to go,
telling her to do what the doctor said about the medicine. “He hit
you?” she asked, and Greta answered that “he” had.

Greta could scarcely believe her good fortune. She was not even to
take care of the children, poor little things, kept in by the rain.
As soon as her mother had gone downstairs, Greta sat up and unpinned
the bandage on her head. She was a little dizzy, but she poured some
water from her old pitcher into the tin basin which was her lavatory
and bathed the cut. She anointed it and tied up her head again, as the
doctor had directed, taking a tablet, too, to swallow down with the
black coffee. A whole day to herself! A book to read.

Something was queer. Oh, yes, what they had said. She was not Jacob
Klein’s daughter. How had she learned to speak English as well as the
summer cottagers did, and better than some of them? Why had her German
been “forgotten,” as they had said, when she was so sick with brain
fever? She tried to remember those first days, four years before, when
she found herself getting strong enough to sit up and then to walk.
Mrs. Klein had been kinder then. “Why, I can, too, remember,” she said
to herself, as a scene rose before her of herself in a dark woods,
frightened and running. Then someone picked her up. Oh, it was coming
back! But she grew dizzy again as she sat up in her desire to remember
and the excitement of it. She would not think till she was better.

Of course it had always seemed funny that she knew English; but Mrs.
Klein had always told her that she went to school with English
children. “Maybe you would ferget one t’ing, maybe another,” Jacob
Klein had said to a frightened little girl. “Dis time it vas German dot
you fergot, und don’t ferget vat ve tells you some more!” Greta could
remember the threatening look and the ugly tone with which he had bent
over her bed and said this.

For another half hour Greta rested and tried not to think at all.
Then she drank the rest of the cold coffee and ate the bread, at last
reaching down under the old quilt for her precious book, in which she
was absorbed immediately.

The book wore a bright cover with pictures of girls about her own age,
but how different they appeared! There were pretty, stylish dresses,
happy faces, and yet some of the pictures found them in a woods like
hers. At first they were in a boarding school and what good times they
had in between lessons. There was one that she liked especially, but
she loved them all. And she had seen things like that. Why, of _course_
she had been to school.

Greta read the book through and began to read it again, though she had
hastily thrust it under the covers when she heard her mother coming
upstairs again. A glass of milk and a hard-boiled egg with a spoonful
of mush made a marvelous meal, for Greta was hungry by the middle of
the afternoon; and her mother explained that as the doctor had said she
was not to eat much, two meals were enough and this was the last. Karl
had almost scalded himself from a kettle on the stove and Minna had
bluing all over her. Greta was to get up early the next morning to do
another washing and to iron. With this cross ultimatum, Mrs. Klein left
the room.

Before night Greta rose, bathed a little to refresh her tired body and
lit a short candle which she kept on her small stand. She read by this
light until she heard the family coming up to bed. Then she blew out
her candle and crept into her bed with her book, happier than she had
been for many a long day. And a little prayer in English came to her
that night.

“Was it being frightened by a storm in the woods that made me sick that
time?” she asked her mother the next day, interested to see Mrs. Klein
look up quickly, as if a little startled.

“Nein, Nein!” she exclaimed, but she told Greta to stop thinking about
that time. She might get sick again. Greta said nothing more, but she
noticed that her mother looked at her from time to time with a frown.
There was _something_ about that time and about those earlier years
of Greta’s that she must know, Greta thought, and she _would_ know!
Another thing. She would not stay in the same room with the man that
she had always thought her father when he was in those ugly moods. No
more waiting on him and dodging his ready hand. Still, if she stayed
in his house,--and it had belonged to his father and grandfather,--how
could she manage it? It did look like a hopeless future until she could
in some way free herself of the family life, and work away from home.
Her mind was busy as she worked.

Life went on as usual, except that Jacob Klein was drinking less
and was working on his little farm, all that was left of his larger
inheritance. They sold eggs and some vegetables from the garden and
even the milk from the one cow to the few families in the cottages. But
when Greta was out in the boat, fishing occasionally, she noticed that
there was more building in different places around the lake. That any
of those cottages would mean anything to her, she had no idea other
than that they might make more work for her to do. There were two more
along the lake where she docked her rowboat to collect and deliver the
clothes. The Wizard shack she could see from the lake; but that of the
girls she had not noticed at all, for her fishing ground was not in
that direction as a rule and a turn in the shore concealed with the
foliage of many trees the little bay on which the new cottage stood.

The fifteenth of June came. Greta had kept her promise firm in regard
to that date. She was doing the larger part of the work as she had
since she was at all able to do it. It would do no harm to run away
from it all for one day. She was sorry for her mother, but it was
becoming a question in her mind whether a real mother could put such
heavy work on a young girl that was her own child. If her leaving for a
day made trouble, she would walk to the village and ask for work. That
was settled.

As she was supposed to get up earlier than the rest, it made little
difference whether the attic boards creaked under her light footsteps
or not. She went quietly down the stairs and heated coffee for her
breakfast. The feeding she did first, though she did not let the dogs
out to follow her. They would go with Jacob Klein, who had said that
he was going to the village. She hesitated about milking the cow, but
finally did so, for fear that the family would sleep too late or it
would not be done at all.

Then away she sped, fleet-footed, feeling that if anyone called her
back it would be a calamity that she could not bear. Her book was under
her arm. The sagging pockets of her old black sweater carried bread and
cheese. But she did not take her usual dive and swim. It was too near
home. Someone might waken and come to find her. On and on she went,
into a part of the woods that she scarcely ever had visited. Sometimes
she went down to the shore, but not till she was far enough away to
prevent her being seen from the shore near home. Squirrels scolded a
little. Nesting birds fluttered past, or sang. She found the nest of a
wood thrush, with its usual bit of cloth interwoven. It was in plain
sight, in the crotch of a tree, with the mother bird upon it. Her mate
sat on the branch of a neighboring tree and sang his “Come to me,”
with variations. Over the lake a great bald eagle flew with a fish.
Swallows skimmed the water. Greta felt as free as the birds, and since
that blow of Jacob Klein’s she had no sense of neglected duty.

Rounding the curve of the east shore, she caught her first glimpse of
the cottage built for the S. P.’s. At first she stepped back behind the
trees and bushes for fear of being seen. Then she saw that there was no
one about. Gradually she drew nearer. She climbed the gentle ascent,
cautiously approached, looked into the windows and went all around the
house. What a pretty, new cottage it was, with its brown and yellowish
trimmings, its golden-brown floor inside and neat, light cots. No one
was living there yet, that was certain, for there was nothing on the
table and the cots were bare. How clean it all was!

Greta sat down on the front step to rest and look about, but she had
been there only a few minutes when she heard voices. Some one was
coming! She flew across the cleared space, where a few evidences of
sawdust and chips remained. To conceal herself from view was easy
enough in the clump of trees and young growths near at hand. Girls,
laughing and talking! And a few boys with them!

“Go easy on that suitcase, Billy. That’s got our ducky breakfast set in
it. Dishes, Billy, the sweetest set, yellow and white, with daisies.
That’s our company set. Our common dishes are in those other baskets.
Here, Jimmy, let me help you with that one.”

She was pretty, that first one with the sparkling brown eyes. Then here
came an older girl, tall, fair and rather pale. “Don’t worry about me,
Fran,” she was saying to a girl as tall behind her, “I’m only tired
with too much going on. I’m perfectly able to carry these blankets.”

Greta counted. There were eight girls, and three boys, all with
blankets across their shoulders and their hands full of packages
or baskets or pails or something in the housekeeping line. It was
interesting. She would stay and watch them a little while. Somewhere
she had learned that it was not nice to be curious. That might be
one of those vivid dreams or memories that came to her now, by night
or day. Nevertheless, she could do no harm, and oh, how full of fun
those girls were. They were like the girls in the book. They were
like,--girls that she had either dreamed of or known.

All of them made several trips back and forth. They had wagons or a
truck in the woods, she supposed. She had noticed the lane, but had
never been to its other end. The younger two boys marched gaily with a
broom and a new mop over their shoulders, a dish pan inverted over each
head, and more blankets under each arm. The one called Billy tried a
dance step, but a blanket became unrolled and all but tripped him.

“Don’t spoil the new mop, Billy!”

“That’s all the sympathy I get, is it Nan?”

“I was just trying to be clever, Billy. I’ll trust you with my camp
trousseau in my suitcase the next trip.”

More boxes and bundles were carried inside. Then came the supplies.
Greta had never seen so much to eat together as this except in stores,
and, to be sure, growing in fields and orchards. But these baskets bore
selected foods for home use, or camp use. There were two large sacks of
flour and large boxes containing cans of all sorts. But Greta tired of
looking at what they were bringing. It was far more interesting to see
the girls themselves and to listen to the gay chatter.

“Please put those cans of coal-oil out on the kitchenette stoop,
Billy. Mother was so afraid that we’d set them near the flour or some
of the other food. Everything else goes in the pantry, everything else
to eat, I mean. We girls will arrange them. Why, yes, if you have to
take the baskets and boxes back, put the stuff anywhere. Leave us the
box with the potatoes, though. Oh, yes, just dump those things into the
dishpan or the washbasin or anything. And thanks so much. You three
get our first invitation to a meal from our new dishes. I don’t know
whether this is camping or going to housekeeping, but we’ll have a
mixture of both, it is likely. Are you all set at your camp?”

“Yes. We can use a few more things, but we can bring back what we
want after we take the truck back to town and come back in our Ford.
Now shan’t we bring up your machine? It’s going to be hard to get it
through till we get the lane widened a little more. You can make it, of
course, but we’ll be over as soon as possible to cut away some of the
stuff. The carpenters zigzagged through and nearly spoiled some of the
young trees.”

“All right, boys. Bring our limousine into its shed, if you please. Did
you say that we could get our supplies nearer the camp than at home?
Oh, yes. I remember that village. We’ve driven through it.”

From her fancied security behind some spruces, Greta looked and wished
that she were a part of the pleasure she saw. Then Jean, whisking back
from the truck and machines by a shorter cut, almost ran into Greta,
who rose, wide-eyed and startled.

“Oh!” exclaimed Jean. “Excuse me! I didn’t know any one was here. Did
you want to see us?”

“I--I happened to come around the lake and I saw your cottage. I didn’t
know any one was building here. Then,--then you all came--and you were
having such a good time--and I just waited to go.”

“Do you live near here?”

“Not very near. It must be two miles around the shore.”

“This bay runs in so that it isn’t any wonder you’ve not seen the
house. Come to see us some time. We’re just getting settled now and
we’re going to be here most of the summer.”

Just then Grace French from the house called, “Jean, Jean!”

“I have to run,” said Jean, smiling at Greta. “Goodbye.”

Greta at once went farther back among the trees, making a wide circle
to avoid the truck and machines; but she found a quiet, grassy spot in
the woods at no great distance from the lane and there she sat down to
read her book, eat her bread and cheese and listen sometimes to distant
laughter.




CHAPTER XIV

LITTLE ADVENTURES OF CAMP LIFE


“Yes, dear Mother, you were right when you supposed that we are having
a good time. It is not only good, but gorgeous.” So Jean Gordon’s
letter began.

“The committee on supplies and communications, as we call Billy and
Jimmy, whom Billy so adores, brought me your note and will take this,
to mail it Saturday. I’m glad that you and Dad are to have that fine
trip. No, I’m not disappointed not to go along and thanks for the
invitation, if I would really prefer to go. I couldn’t leave the girls
and I’ll probably get East some day.

“Billy told me a lot of things about the boys’ camp, and said that
Jimmy put in a lot of money that he has made along, at the office,
reporting, doing some press work, whatever that is, and everything. His
father pays him. But the boys are only borrowing of him and I think
that they are having as great a time as we are. They are in the lake
about half the time. At least we always see them when we go out. Billy
offered to take me in his canoe, but Grace won’t let me go until I
learn to swim better, for canoes are ‘not so safe,’ she says. I can
float, though, and swim a little. I’m so mad at myself to think that I
never wanted to swim,--and all my life near the lakes! Disgusting! Fran
and Bess are like fish in the water, and even Molly can do better than
I can. Just wait, though, till this summer is over. Tell my father,
by the way, that we all appreciate this little bay that the fathers
chose for us. We can wade out and swim in the shallower water without
worrying Grace, and the boys have rigged up a diving place, whatever
you call it, just like what they have.

“Grace is catching up in sleep and feels fine. She makes us all take an
early dip and have setting up exercises, for every camp that amounts to
anything does that, she says. Then we can plan our day ourselves, and
you ought to see the fish we catch _and cook_, if you please. It was so
cold that we made a big fire in the range yesterday and used a little
of that coal, too, though mostly we burn wood, and we baked biscuit
that turned out all right and had maple molasses with them. Yes, the
coal-oil stove works all right and we are careful. Grace usually
oversees our efforts to cook. We have had fires outdoors, too, right
on what beach we have, and we do everything that careful woodsmen--and
woodswomen--do. So don’t have a worry while you are gone. We lock up
every night and everything.

“You ought to see our pantry! The cans look fine, all in a row on one
shelf. The sack of flour stands in a box with white paper in it to
catch what we spill. We tacked up a little curtain of what was left of
our peacock stuff over the shelf that has our precious dishes. But we
have been tearing around outdoors so much that we haven’t used them
but once. Then we’re still painting our chairs off and on. The yellow
paint we got turned out all right. Molly and Phoebe are chief artists,
but I always knew that I was artistic even if I couldn’t draw, you
know! House-painting and furniture will be my specialty, and we think
it safer to put on the bright pictures by--let’s see, decalcomania,
they call it, I think. Some kind of mania, anyhow, I think. But Phoebe
has drawn a line that we make that golden-brown, which gives a nice
contrast with the yellow, after we get that on. The only trouble is
that we need the chairs to use, so progress is slow, doing about two at
a time.

“Mr. Lockhart sent the most wonderful binoculars out for Fran. She was
so surprised and pleased! Some of us get out pretty early to see what
is singing over our heads and we have enough glasses now to get our
identifications of even the little birds pretty sure. We are glad that
we brought all our nature books along. And we have found a girl who
lives near the lake and knows where different birds nest. She took me
to see a wood thrush’s nest, such a pretty, or odd one, only yesterday.
I’ll have to tell you about her. She’s a sort of mystery.

“I nearly ran into her the day we brought everything out and went to
housekeeping. Oh, it was the greatest fun, Mother, to move into our own
playhouse, so to speak! But you have listened to me rave about that
before.

“I was scampering through the trees with something from the truck when
lo and behold, here, in the midst of some spruces, was this girl. Just
imagine a thin face with big brown eyes and a scared look when she
saw me, an old fuzzy black sweater that was whole but looked awful, a
patched old purple skirt, faded, and dipping up here and down there, no
stockings at all and some old shoes that were tied on. I suppose she
wore them to save her feet going through the woods. Her hair was short
and just the curly kind that I’ve always wished mine was, but it was
brushed straight back from her face, as if she’d tried to get the curl
out.

“I asked her if she wanted to see us and she seemed to be more scared
than ever and sort of apologized. She said that she just happened on
the house and when we came we seemed to be having so much fun that
she just waited a minute,--something like that. Grace called me and I
didn’t see her any more, though I told Grace and she said that we would
lock up well. Nobody knew who might be around.

“Next thing, Fran made a remark that she has hated herself for ever
since. We were exploring real early one morning, led on by a bird we
couldn’t locate, and we came to the prettiest spot where there is a big
willow tree, the kind that you want right away to climb into. Well,
we climbed, and there, high up, the funniest bathing suit you ever saw
was hanging. It looked like a sack and was made of pieces of different
colored cloth.

“‘Well, look at this!’ Fran exclaimed. ‘Here’s the last word in bathing
suits. It reminds me of Joseph’s coat of many colors; and notice the
combination, will you? Whoever put such a thing as that together? It’s
all wet, so somebody has actually worn it!’

“Fran had no idea that anybody would hear her, for we had been all over
the place, we thought, but she had hardly gotten the words out of her
mouth when we saw a girl hurrying away from a clump of bushes. It was
the same girl that I’d seen near our camp. She turned and looked back,
and I saw that she was crying a little, but she whisked her head around
and got some trees between us in a jiffy. ‘Oh!’ said Fran, ‘wasn’t that
awful? Was that the girl you saw, Jean? And I’ve broken her heart by
laughing at her bathing suit. I never thought!’

“None of us said a word to make Fran feel any worse about it, but I got
to thinking. Of course she had to have something to wear in the lake,
and that was all she could put together. They must be awfully poor or
something. But she couldn’t have been really mad about it, for she came
to camp with a basket of vegetables from their garden, she said, and
asked if we wanted to buy any. Fran was there and saw her. She rushed
out and said at once that we’d take all she would let us have. Fran
was real cordial; and sober as she is, I saw a funny twinkle come into
the girl’s eyes when she looked at Fran, who was digging into her big
purse. She thanked us very politely and went away at once. She had on a
real respectable gingham dress this time, though it was a funny plaid
and made in a terribly old-fashioned way.

“I asked her if her folks had any eggs to sell and she said they did
sometimes. So she brought us eggs and the next time we had an early
bird hunt we saw her in the woods and I went with her to see the wood
thrush’s nest. Her name is Greta Klein. Nan is going to ask Jimmy if he
ever heard of the Kleins. The name is German, you see, but her English
is as good as ours,--oh, I hear you laugh at that. It isn’t saying very
much for it, I know. Still, there is a difference when you really can
talk correctly, even if you do not always do it.

“We are taking turns at the cooking, as we said we should. So far we
have not let Grace do one thing except superintend. The cooks submit
the menus to her to see if they have a ‘balanced meal.’ But sometimes
if we have a long hike and everybody is tired, we just all pitch in and
get up what there is double quick. It is so beautiful here, Mother, and
we all love it!”

With a little more Jean ended the long letter to her mother. Greta
could have verified what was said about her. She had, indeed, been hurt
at Fran’s remark, though the tears had been from a rare breakdown and
discouragement, when she had found a place in the bushes to cry it out
after her morning swim. A great scolding she had had after the day in
the woods. Her mother had asked her if she had gone crazy and Greta had
replied that she would have to have a rest once in a while if she had
so much to do. “Either that, Mother, or I shall go away to work,” she
had said firmly.

Mrs. Klein grew very angry and kept after her constantly with more to
do than ever, telling her that she would teach her if she could go
off for a whole day with washings to do and cooking and feeding and
children under foot. She threatened to beat Greta, but Greta said, “Why
can’t you work more with me and not put most of the hard work on me?
I’ll work gladly to help earn some money for us; but if Jacob Klein
amounted to anything as a farmer we wouldn’t be so poor.”

This enraged Mrs. Klein more than ever. She advanced threateningly
toward the girl, till Greta ran out of the house and her mother
called to her to come back and iron the clothes for Mrs. Smith. Greta
returned, warily, but Mrs. Klein told her to sprinkle the clothes and
then mix the bread while she went to see where the children were.

Such was the state of things, with Greta thinking more and more that
there was something strange about her relations with the man and woman
who had called themselves her parents. Flashes of memory returned, or
what she hoped was memory, though dim. She had always recalled some
clothing that she had thought was hers as she came back to life after
the fever, but she saw the dress being made over for the little boy,
then in dresses. How could she ever find out about anything?

The presence of the girls at their camp was one source of pleasure, if
somewhat tantalizing. She told her mother about a camp at that end of
the lake and asked if she might not sell their eggs and vegetables to
them. To this Mrs. Klein agreed, more readily than ever after the sale
to Fran and the good price that she paid. Long evenings in the garden
Greta spent, plying a busy hoe against the weeds. That the campers were
girls she did not mention, but their bright faces were often before
her. They led a different life, a life that had something ahead of it,
for she saw them with their books and field glasses, or taking their
early dip and rowing about the lake. Sometimes she swam nearly to the
little bay when she thought that she had time.

Then she met them on the unfortunate occasion of Fran’s remark and
again when she fell in with Jean on a very early stroll toward their
camp. By that time Jean had heard from Jimmy that the Klein house was
across the lake from the Wizards’ shack and that Jacob Klein was a
lazy ne’er-do-well, who drank and abused his family. “Poor Greta!”
thought Jean.

It happened next that Jean, Molly and Nan took a longer hike than they
had intended and found themselves coming out of the woods upon a narrow
road that led to the lake, as they could see. At a little distance they
saw a house and decided to stop and ask for a drink of water.




CHAPTER XV

MOLLY’S ADVENTURE


It was late in the afternoon. As it happened, Greta had taken the
children with her to deliver clothes. They could at least sit in the
boat to watch one basket while she delivered the other. In consequence,
no dingy children were at the Klein gate when Jean and the other two
girls entered. Even the dogs were away with their master, who was as a
rule more kind to them than to his children.

The gate of a rickety fence stood open. A few hens ran about the yard
with some long-legged young chickens. The girls entered the yard,
hesitating a little as they walked up to the door, which stood open
revealing anything but a well-kept room inside. They rapped, intending
to ask if they might find the well, for Jean had her collapsible cup
with her. There was no response.

“Out in the field, I suppose,” said Molly. “Let’s see if we can find
the well. It can’t do any harm, and I’m perishing for a drink. That
woods was fearfully hot, I thought.”

Turning from the door, the girls started around the house. There were
two old pumps, and while the girls were guessing which was the well and
which was the cistern, they heard the sound of crying, a faint moaning,
further back in the yard, it seemed. Toward the left there stood an old
barn and sheds, with the sty, odorous and muddy. But toward the right
there was a tangle of bushes and fruit trees, to all appearances from
where they stood.

They listened, Molly with her fingers to her lips. “Perhaps we’d better
go on,” whispered Nan.

“No,” returned Molly, “some one might be hurt. Wait. I’ll see.”

Molly tiptoed in the direction of the sound, but as she went loud
sobbing broke out. Jean and Nan were for getting away. That did not
sound like any one who was injured. Perhaps they would intrude. But
Molly was obviously seeing something or some one. She was looking
soberly ahead, then put her head on one side to listen. Molly was as
careful as they would be not to be intrusive. They would leave it to
her.

“Sakes, Jean, listen!” whispered Nan. “It’s German.”

“_Meine Greta, meine Greta, meine Greta!_” they heard repeated.

“Why, this must be where Greta lives,” said Jean. “What’s _happened_
to her?” Jean started toward Molly, but Molly, her face alert, was
listening and waved Jean back. They heard a sobbing outburst of German
words that were unintelligible to them.

“Molly knows German,” Nan reminded Jean, and Jean nodded assent. Both
girls were puzzled and uneasy. There must be some reason why Molly was
listening where anybody would think she had no right to be. There was a
pause and then another outburst of speech, as if the person, a woman,
were talking to some one, even explaining. It was very curious. Then
the first expression, “_Meine Greta, meine kleine Greta_,” was moaned,
with “_liebchen_” and a few other words that the girls knew.

“From the looks of Greta, I wouldn’t say that she looked like anybody’s
‘_liebchen_,’” whispered Jean. “She looks more like some poor
step-child to me.”

But Molly was picking a silent way back to them. Her face was very
sober now. She waved them toward the gate, her finger on her lips; and
when she reached them she hurried them out.

“I’ve heard something dreadful, girls, and we must get out of sight as
soon as possible, before that poor woman has any idea that there was
any one there to hear her. Let’s get right down to shore. Maybe some of
the girls are out in the boat and will see us and come for us. I want
to get away as quickly as I can. I’ll tell you all about it as soon as
I get over being shocked. Isn’t Greta the name of that girl who brings
us things once in a while?”

“Why, of course, Molly. You know that.”

“Do I? I don’t know what I do know. There she is now! And her boat is
coming to this landing! So I suppose that is where the Kleins live.”

“Oh, I hadn’t thought of that, Molly. Yes, it’s just about the
location, I suppose, that Jimmy said. You can see the peninsula from
here, of course.”

The girls had reached the tree-sheltered shore just as Greta sent her
boat flying toward them. “Wait,” said Molly, “I want to speak to her.”

“You want to tell her what happened?”

“Yes, some of it.”

The girls approached the rude dock. Greta smiled a real welcome, for
to see the girls was worth a day’s hard work. She lifted the children
out and told them to go on home; then Molly laid a hand on her arm. “We
stopped to get a drink at a house up there. Is that where you live?”

“Yes. That is what is left of the Klein farm.”

“Well, we have just been there. We walked all the way back to the door,
which was open, but no one answered our knock. I was terribly thirsty,
so we went around the house and were just going to get a drink when
we heard some one crying. I thought that somebody might be hurt, so I
stepped back to see. It was a large, stoutly built woman, but she was
not hurt, and I think you ought to know what she said. Could you meet
us very early to-morrow morning? Jean said that you were out early
sometimes.”

Greta was impressed with Molly’s manner. “Yes,” she answered. “Where
shall I meet you? Shall I come all the way?”

“If you can, and I will have breakfast for you, too.”

“Oh, how kind you are! But I can’t be dressed well enough. This is the
best I have.”

“Some wouldn’t think that our middies and bloomers were much in the way
of clothes,” laughed Jean. “Please come.”

Molly did not laugh, but she said, “I must talk to you, Greta, and if
you can come to us it will be a favor, much easier than for us to come
out here, or near by. How soon can you come?”

“The earlier the better for me. I have to get back to work before my
mother gets around. I take an early swim and bath in the lake. Then I
go back to do the feeding and milking, to get breakfast and start the
washing when we have any.”

Molly seemed to know instinctively that Greta could not get permission
to come. “While we talk, you can drink a cup of hot cocoa with us and
eat a plate of bacon and eggs with toast. Then if you have to hurry
back it is all right. Come about five o’clock. We are planning an early
hike anyway. And it will be much better if your mother does not know
that we were there. Need you notice her tears?”

“I’ve seen her that way before, though not very often, and I never
speak of it. I did once,--and I--was sorry.”

“All right. We’ll be looking for you. Nobody but Jean and Nan will know
why we want to see you specially.”

Greta promised to come at five o’clock and stay long enough for
breakfast. The girls hurried away, though Greta offered to take them
across in the boat. “Perhaps I will come by boat to-morrow morning,”
she said.

What could Molly have to tell her? Did she mean that her mother talked
to her? No, for she said that it would be best for her mother not
to know that they had been there. It was a mystery. But that it was
important she was sure. Her imagination was busy, but she could not
guess what it might be.




CHAPTER XVI

SANS PEUR


Almost before the birds Greta was up the next morning. She had not
slept well, for the attic was hot. Not a breeze was stirring when she
loosed the boat from its moorings and pushed out upon a lake that wore
scarcely a ripple. “We are due for a big storm if this keeps up,”
thought Greta. The air was oppressive and clouds were gathering. Even
the effort of rowing brought the perspiration to Greta’s brow, still
tender from its hurt. She lost no time, for there was a low rumble of
distant thunder and she did not want to be caught out upon the water.

On the peninsula across from her the boys’ flag flew. Their cabin was
partly concealed by the trees between it and the lake. No one there
seemed to be stirring. Presently a breeze developed and Greta bent,
indeed, to her oars. She must reach the little bay and the girls’ camp
as soon as possible. But the clouds did not seem to be heavier.

“There she comes, Molly!”

Three sober girls watched Greta make her way around the curve in the
lake shore and steadily row toward them, stopping for one little wave
when she saw them.

“She is awfully strong, isn’t she--for all she looks so pale and worn
when she comes?”

“All that hard work would give anybody muscles. Have you noticed her
poor hands?”

“Yes, Jean; but they are not out of shape at least.”

“No, just rough and her finger-nails are all broken. I suppose the
washing does it and I don’t know what else she does, but she happened
to speak of doing that. She had a big bundle of clothes in the boat
last evening. How are we going to manage this, Molly?”

“What do you mean, Jean?”

“Why, if you tell her before us, won’t she feel worse? Suppose Nan and
I make some excuse and leave you with her?”

“Oh, no, Jean--please! I need support; and besides, she admires you
most of all. I can tell. You just slip an arm around her if she needs
one!”

“We’d better give her her breakfast first, for fear she’ll be too
stirred up to eat,” Nan suggested.

“Good idea, Nan. Your head is always level.”

“Then if that’s so, I’d better see about the breakfast. You go down to
meet her, Jean.”

Nan and Molly hurried in, while Jean went down to the little dock to
welcome their guest.

“I was a little afraid you might not come, Greta, for it looks so much
like a storm,” said Jean, while Greta was fastening her boat securely.

“I think that I would have come _in_ a storm, if there had been no
other way. But it is a good thing that I was to come early, I suppose.”

“Molly and Nan went in to hurry up the breakfast. We had the milk
heated and the bacon cooked. There will be just us four to have
breakfast together. Grace took the rest on a breakfast hike, but I’m
afraid that they’re going to get caught in a storm if they don’t hurry
back. We have two girls from our town visiting us and that is the
reason for the trip. They are crazy to do everything and we are crazy
to show them everything we do. Nobody slept much last night.”

“I’m afraid that you wanted to go with the other girls,” thoughtfully
said Greta.

“Oh, no. Especially after Molly told us what she wants to tell
you,--and we did not mention it to the rest. But we’ll forget that now
and have a jolly good breakfast if we can. I’m not sure but ice-cold
lemonade would be better than hot cocoa in this kind of weather,--funny
to have a hot night on our lake.”

If the cocoa was hot, it was bracing to Greta. She sat at the yellow
and brown and white table, on a yellow, brown and white chair and had
her bacon and eggs served on the yellow dishes decorated with daisies.
“We are sibyls in our club,” Molly explained, “and our colors are
yellow and white, but we aren’t what the boys call ‘yellow,’ for our
motto is ‘_sans peur_,’ that means ‘without fear,’ and we’ve already
discovered that to have courage is one of the most necessary things
anywhere. Mine was at a low ebb last night, I can tell you, but this
morning I’m all braced up.”

Jean looked at Molly with amused affection. She understood how Molly
dreaded to tell Greta what she must.

Greta was bright enough to have an inkling of what Molly meant. Her own
courage was sinking, and had been all night. What had Molly heard? What
new and dreadful thing might she have to meet at home? Jacob Klein had
not come home the night before. Perhaps it was something about him.

But the breakfast was good and the girls were kind and interesting.
She did not seem to feel awkward with managing to eat before them.
Her mother had always made fun of her “fussy ways,” as her German
expressions meant. A good breeze was blowing through the big room and
making them all more comfortable. After the meal the girls left the
table as it was and took Greta outdoors to a nook among the trees where
they had fixed a rope swing and some seats out of logs. On one of
these they sat down, though Nan presently jumped up, saying that she’d
better clear the table, for the whole lot of girls would be back soon,
she thought. They all looked at the gathering clouds. The storm seemed
to be a long time coming. Perhaps it would pass around them. In any
event, Molly was thinking how she would tell Greta and Greta was more
interested in what she was to hear than in the storm.

“Greta,” began Molly, “does _Mrs. Klein_ treat you kindly?”

Greta’s dark eyes looked soberly into Molly’s. “I’d rather not say,”
she replied. “Yes, I will, too. It is a chance to tell some one. My
mother was good to me for a long time after I had a bad sickness, and
forgot things, they said. Then she changed and although she would never
let Jacob Klein abuse me, she can’t care much for me or she would never
put the heaviest work on me, even when she is well enough to help more.
I want to go away from home to work, and I thought that perhaps you
girls could help me find a way, to help some one with any kind of work;
and then I could send the money home to my mother and the children. I
heard her say when they were quarreling, after Jacob Klein threw me
against the tubs and hurt my head, that he must leave me alone and that
I was not his child.”

All this came tumbling out rapidly, as if Greta had planned it, which
was not the case. It was only that she was so full of her unhappiness
and puzzles.

“Did you ever think that perhaps you were not her child either?”

Greta looked startled. Then she said, slowly, “I thought that she might
have been married before and that my father might have had dark eyes
like mine. All the rest have blue eyes and light hair, if you noticed,
and the horse-doctor that came to look after me as well as the horse
asked my mother where she found a little girl with brown eyes. He was
joking, but my mother didn’t like it and said that families were not
always of one complexion, or something like that. She talks mostly
German.”

“I know,” answered Molly, who had heard her. “I understand German, for
we had a good woman that helped us for a long time when one of the
children was little and Mother was not strong. She started me because
she loved to talk her own language with some one, and I’ve kept it up.
But you haven’t a bit of a German accent and talk English as well as we
do. How does it happen?”

“That is what I have been wondering about for a long time. After this
sickness I had to be taught German, but could talk English. My mother
said that I had been bewitched,--that is what it would mean in English.
She taught me to read the German newspapers that Jacob Klein has,--I
haven’t called him Father since I found he wasn’t my father. Then I
found an old German Bible that I supposed was my great-grandmother’s,
from the date in it; but it was Jacob’s grandmother’s, of course. There
is better German in that, and it has been a help,--to stand things,
I mean.” Greta’s eyes filled with tears, but she dashed them away,
saying, “I’m sorry to complain this way to you. Please do _not_ tell
any one.”

“I can’t promise that,” smiled Molly, “but if you feel the same way
after I tell you a few things,--all right. But don’t you remember
anything that happened before this time that you were sick?”

“I know that I have been at school somewhere, and that I have seen
people like you somewhere and of course I am feeling pretty sure that
there is something queer about all this. Why should I know these things
if I had always been with these people? Yet it has been pretty well
told me all about my mother’s people and how my aunt Gretchen always
thought so much of me before she died and how my grandmother said
I would make a good little worker and would help my mother.” Greta
stopped with a whimsical smile. “I have, all right,” she added, “but
I have had a chance to talk English every summer with the people that
come to the cottages at the other end of the lake, and this summer a
lady gave me a lovely book, all about girls like you.”

“Thank you for telling us about yourself, Greta. Now let me tell you
what I heard this woman that you have been living with say.”

“‘This woman that you have been living with’?” thought Greta. “What
does this girl mean?”

“She did not say much, and in the simplest German, but she said enough
to make me listen to the rest,” continued Molly, going on to describe
the scene, telling how the girls happened to stop at the place.

“Yes, that was Mother,” said Greta in reply to Molly’s question, after
a detailed description of the woman whom she had seen.

“Well,” said Molly, “I saw a large stone by some bushes. There was a
sort of tangle in that corner of the yard, near a pasture fence.”
Greta nodded. She knew. “There was an old lilac bush and a syringa
bush in my way, but I peeped around them to see who was crying and if
anybody needed help. But here this woman was lying, almost on her face,
her hands clutching the grass between some little bushes that were
planted in a row, Greta. Then it was that I noticed the big stone in
the corner and a row of small stones that started from it as if someone
had been going to make a flower bed, you know. These all must be to
mark the place, Greta.

“She was sort of moaning, in German, ‘my Greta, my Greta, my little
Greta,’ and then she began to talk to her, just as I was going to slip
away, not to intrude; and she wasn’t hurt, I could see. But she went
on, ‘Your father never meant to kill you when he hit you that time,
and I couldn’t see him hung, could I? So here you are without a stone
with your name on it and not a prayer said over you when we hid you
here!’ She burst out sobbing loudly then, but by that time I thought I
ought to hear if she said anything more, and presently she was asking,
‘Wasn’t it better for no one to know, when the little girl came and
could take your place, and her people were all dead in the storm?’”

Here Jean slipped an arm around Greta, who was leaning toward Molly,
listening tensely. “Oh,--then the real Greta is buried there, and I am
the little girl!”

“Yes,--the ‘_kleines Mädchen_.’ When I got home last night, Greta, I
wrote down every German expression that I could remember, so I could
swear to it if necessary. And I lay awake thinking it out nearly half
the night. There wasn’t anything else, except that she kept sobbing and
repeating the little expressions she had used, Greta’s name, and asking
if she blamed her mother. Did you ever think that you might have been
kidnapped?”

“Yes. I made a wonderful story about myself and then I saw how silly
it was. I even belonged to the German or English nobility, though as
I couldn’t speak good German the first wasn’t likely. But it must be
true that my people are dead in a storm, for anything that my mother
said in that way would have to be true. Oh, to think of it! I knew I
was different and didn’t belong! I’d rather be all alone than to be the
daughter of that man--and poor Mother! She isn’t very bright, girls,
just stupid about some things, and loves that dreadful man! What can I
do? Oh, thank you, Miss Molly, for caring to tell me about it. It is a
wonderful thing for me that you girls came here this summer!”

But Greta put her head in her hands, and Jean patted her shoulder.
“We’ll have to think it out,” said Jean. “I told Molly that if it
happened in an accident, maybe the poor woman wasn’t so bad to want to
save her husband. But what was worst was about you, especially since
you looked unhappy and tired out. Oh, yes, Molly, you forgot to tell
Greta one thing, how she said she wasn’t making the girl that took
the real Greta’s place have a happy time and was making her work for
Greta’s little brother and sister. She has some crazy idea like that!”

“As long as that grave is there, it could be proved that I am not
Greta, I suppose. At least, they’d have to explain it.”

“But perhaps they could take,--take it all away, if they had any hint
that you knew,” said Molly.

“That is so. I will have to go back and wait. I always wondered why
Mother had started a flower-bed and those rose-bushes there, but I
never dared ask. I have a memory of a storm in the woods, or it seemed
like that.”

As Greta spoke, a blinding flash of lightning was followed by a
terrific crash of thunder. “My sakes!” exclaimed Jean. “Let’s get
inside. Oh, I hope that the girls are almost back!”

The three of them had been too much interested in the story which
Molly was relating to notice how black the sky had become. Nan rushed
to the door to call them, but saw that it was unnecessary. The bolt
of lightning so near had been sufficient warning. Greta went to work
with them to close all the windows and door and drag the cots in from
the sleeping porch. The room presented a disheveled appearance by the
time they were through, but they were concerned only with the storm.
Jean jumped with the next crash, but Greta, used to taking care of
frightened little children in storms, smiled at her and took her hand,
“What did you say your motto is?” she asked.

“Thanks, Greta. I’ll remember, but I’m terribly uneasy about the girls.
If they had taken the boat, they could get away from the trees.”

“But look at the lake, Miss Jean.”

“Just Jean and Molly and Nan, Greta,” said Jean, as she looked out at
an angry lake, whipped by a wind. The trees were bending now before a
great wind. Whirls of leaves and broken branches began to fly. Then
Nan cried, “Here they come,” and ran to open the door for the fleeing
girls, who ran through a blinding downpour and against a strong wind.

“It’s a regular whirlwind, and I hear a terrible roaring, girls,” said
Grace, out of breath. “Is everything closed tight?”

Nan, Jean and Molly were using their combined strength to shut the door
after the dripping girls had come in, but Greta answered. “We shut up
everything, Miss French.”

There was nothing to do but to wait results. By this time they all
knew that a storm of more than usual intensity was upon them. “‘_Sans
peur_,’ girls,” Grace reminded them, her chin raised and her eyes
looking out upon the whirling scene outside. “I’m glad that we reached
shelter and are together.”

“I’m scared,” said Phoebe, “and I don’t care who knows it!” She was
standing by Leigh Dudley, who had drawn a chair into the middle of
the room and had sunk into it as quite exhausted after their mad rush
through the woods. Leigh reached up with a smile and drew Phoebe down
into her lap. “Sit down Phoebe-bird. It doesn’t do any good to be
scared, but I’m not feeling any too safe myself.”

The two girls cuddled together and shut their eyes, but Jean and Greta
stood together, looking out, and Greta whispered, “The good God can
save us if it is best.” Not in vain had Greta read that German Bible.

Crash went a tree, just hitting the sleeping porch, and the little
house shook. But the worst of the storm had passed them by in a few
minutes from the time they heard the roaring sound, so rapidly was the
work of destruction done. It was wind rather than lightning which had
been the greatest menace. Pouring rain continued for some time,--and
then the sun came out!

“Now is the time to be thankful, girls,” said Grace, “but I hope that
the boys are all right. If I’m not mistaken, some cyclone went by us
and we’ll hear of damage done by it.”

Uneasily, the girls went about opening windows, looking out to see
what damage had been done to the sleeping porch, or going out into
their cleared dooryard to see if their prettiest trees had suffered.
Branches lay on the ground, whipped from the trees. It was a small
elm that had hit the porch. “Girls, if that tree hadn’t been actually
_lifted_ by the wind, I don’t believe it could have reached us,” said
Jean. “My father said that they particularly tried to see that no tree
could hit us if a storm felled it, no big one, I mean. We have shade
enough as it is.”

The girls stood looking about. “I’m glad that the boys built their
shack in a pretty well cleared place, too,” said Nan, who could
scarcely help worrying about Jimmy. Greta was thinking of home and the
children. They were often rude to her, in the atmosphere of scolding
and criticism which made Greta’s life wretched. But they also depended
upon her for a great deal and occasionally, when away from their
mother’s disapproval, showed her a little affection, especially the
youngest child.

Still excited by the character of the storm, the girls ran around in
the wet woods near by. They found the tree which had been struck by
lightning before Nan, Jean and Greta had gone into the house and they
were startled to find how near it had been. But when they looked across
the lake, beyond the camp’s small bay and where the woods stretched
toward Greta’s home, they saw the most damage. Trees lay prostrate near
the shore. Branches and drift tossed upon the still active waves. “I
must hurry home at once,” said Greta. “The storm has gone that way.”

“I’ll go with you,” declared Jean, thinking of the motto, for the
thought of going frightened her and she would have preferred to know
what had happened to Jimmy Standish, her friend, Billy Baxter and the
rest of the boys. But she and Molly and Nan had gotten Greta into
coming for breakfast. If the family were unharmed by the storm and
Greta had a scolding or worse, she would stand by her.

“I’ll go, too,” said Molly; but Grace heard them.

“Wait, girls,” said Grace. “I think that I hear the boys calling.”

The girls listened.

“Wah-hoo-oo-oo-oo-oo!” came the long-drawn call.

“Oo-ey, oo-ey, oo-ey,” answered Grace, all smiles, for that was Jimmy.

In a few minutes several boys came crashing through the bushes and
brush, not caring how the wet drops sprinkled them right and left.
“Everybody all right?” asked Jimmy, who was in the lead, Billy Baxter
right behind him. His quick eyes took in Grace and Nan first and
traveled over the rest with some relief.

“Yes,” answered Grace. “No one was out in the storm and the little
cabin stood; but some of us got inside just in time. I should have had
more sense than to go off for a hike and breakfast when it felt like a
storm, even if we did not notice any signs when we left so early. I’ve
been wondering about you.”

“All of us have,” Jean added, “and Greta is worrying about her folks
across the lake. This is Greta Klein. Greta, this is Nan’s brother,
Jimmy. He’s in charge at the boys’ camp, just as Grace French is here.”

“I was certainly thankful to hear you call, Jimmy,” said Grace, while
Greta and Jimmy acknowledged the introduction after a fashion, for
matters were on an informal footing. Jean had merely announced facts.

“We would have been around when it first began to look like a bad
storm, but we were off, too, out of sight, on the other shore of the
peninsula to begin with, then ’way around in the woods. Like you, we
started early and there is a little fisherman’s shack there. We made
it to our camp, though, but we had to stay till she blew over then. As
soon as we could, we ran out where we could see your roof and it was
still on. So we hoped that you were all right. Gee-whilikins, didn’t it
get dark?”

“Jimmy brought ‘first aid’ and everything,” said Dan Pierce. “Would
Greta like to have us go around with her?”

“That is a fine idea, Dan,” said Grace, and Billy wished that he had
thought of it. “I thought of going around with Greta, as soon as we
knew about your camp. I was sure that you would get some sort of a
message through pretty soon, unless you were all blown away. Suppose
you three boys come with Greta and me, and maybe Molly, and Jean.
They spoke of going. Do you think that you could stand it, girls, if
anything has happened there?” This question was spoken in a lower tone,
for the benefit of Jean and Molly only.

“‘_Sans peur_,’ Grace,” said Jean stoutly. “Get Molly to tell you all
about everything while we go.”

“Couldn’t we go in the boats now?” asked Molly, but caught herself
short. “Oh, girls, we never thought to look and see if the boats are
there yet!”

They were not, as the assembled company soon found out when they ran
around to the lake side of the cottage. There was no sign either
of Greta’s boat or theirs. “Our canoes were high and dry and under
shelter,” said Jimmy, “but the row-boats and the little motor are
goners as far as we know.”

“Some of them may turn up,” hopefully inserted Billy. “Let’s go, Jimmy.”

“All right, kid, when the girls are ready. By the way, Grace, tell
them all to look out for trees or branches that might be ready to
fall. We’ll have to go on the edge of the woods and through it in some
places, isn’t that so, Greta?”

“Yes, sir.”

Senior Jimmy smiled at the “sir,” then happened to think. Yes, he was
out of school, and he’d be in the office with his father till he
earned enough money, in a year or so, to start to college. Say, he was
grown up, after all.

“Greta,” asked Molly, soon after they started through the woods, “how
old were you when you were ‘sick’?”

“It was four years ago, and Mother says that I am sixteen.”

“You don’t look any older than I do, and I’m fifteen. Well, yes, you do
look older in one way, but then you’ve done so much hard work, I guess.”

The going was difficult. They scarcely stopped to examine the curious
freaks of the storm in the woods. Afterward they learned that there was
a comparatively small area damaged by the “twister,” though the storm
was general. Jimmy said that he thought the twister must have stooped
and risen again, in an erratic fashion, to fell some trees, take off
the tops of others and cut almost a path before it in places.

It was some time before they came into sight of the Klein house. There
it stood, as ramshackle as ever and with the additional loss of the
roof over Greta’s attic. As they reached the road which ran between the
woods and the place, Greta ran, the rest following as rapidly as they
could.

The yard was strewn with rubbish and a few excited chickens ran about
as Greta appeared; but she dashed into the house, calling to see where
her mother and the children were. There was no response. Greta looked
anxious, as she came from the rear of the house to say that no one was
downstairs.

Jimmy insisted on accompanying Greta upstairs to see if they could be
there, hurt, perhaps, when the roof went off. They found the attic
pretty well demolished and the ceiling had fallen in the bedroom below;
but there were no signs of any one having been there when it happened.
“We’ll look to see if the horse and the old wagon are here,” said
Greta, running down the stairs and outdoors. “Maybe they started away
before the storm began. Mother was very anxious last night and seemed
to think that--her husband--was in trouble.”

There lay the explanation of the absence. Neither horse nor wagon
were to be found. The dogs were gone. The lone cow in the pasture was
unhurt. “She probably wakened up early,” said Greta, “and just went to
the village to see what had become of him. Thank you all for coming
with me. I’ll just wait here and straighten up the best I can till they
come. It was a good thing they went, unless they might have gotten
caught in the storm.”

“I don’t think we should leave you here alone, Greta, to find out later
what did happen. Billy and I can walk across to the village and find
out if they are in any trouble. Where would she be likely to go?”

“There is one woman there that Mother stops to see when she goes to
town. If there were any trouble about--him--she would ask Mrs.--well,
let me write the name for you. It’s a long German name. I hate to have
you take all that trouble, and the long walk after all your hiking,
too. I just don’t know what _to_ do this time.”

“We’re going, Greta. It is the only thing to do.”

“I’ll make some coffee for you first.”

“No, we had breakfast and we’ll get something in town. Honest, we’ll do
it.”

The discussion came to an end suddenly, for the attention of everyone
was diverted by the appearance of a light buggy and a toiling horse
that was splashing through mud and water on the dirt road. The man who
was driving was leaning out to look at the damage of the storm and
viewing with surprise the number of people in the front yard. “Hello,”
he called, “is Greta Klein there?”

Greta came running forward to meet the man who drove up, turned his
wheel and clambered heavily out of the buggy. Jean happened to stand
nearest and heard the most of the low conversation that took place,
though she stepped back a little.

“I’m sorry to tell you, Greta, that your pa was took sudden last night
and your ma was sent fur. She got up an’ took the little ones an’ why
she didn’t wake you up I don’t know. Mebbe she isn’t quite right, fur
she says that you ain’t her child an’ she’s terrible upset becuz he wuz
gone when she got there. The children wuzn’t half dressed an’ she wants
their clothes.”

“Does she want me to come?”

“No, but I would. That woman she stays with says to bring you.”

Greta turned to Jean. Her face was white, but her lips were set firmly.
“I’ll have to go. Did you hear what happened to Jacob Klein, Jean?”

“Yes. Go and get ready and I’ll tell the rest.”

Grace, however, stepped up to the messenger and asked what his news was
about Mrs. Klein. “We are friends of Greta’s from a couple of camps on
the lake. She took breakfast with us this morning and was kept by the
storm.”

“Oh, she did. Well, all I have to say is that it’s a good thing she
has friends. If you know anything about Klein you’ll know that what
happened was likely to happen to a man with his habits. There was a
terrible quarrel where he was drinking and Klein was hurt. That’s all I
know except his wife’s ravings. She’s got the hysterics, I think.”

“Is she likely to hurt Greta?”

“Oh, no. But she seems to have took a dislike to Greta, they say.”

“I see.” Grace went into the house to see if she could help Greta in
any way. Greta was trying to find the children’s clothes in the midst
of the destruction wrought by the fallen ceiling, and hearing Grace’s
footsteps, she looked out of the door.

“Don’t try to come up, Miss French. I’m finding their clothes and we
can clean them up when I get into town.”

“Well, I just want to tell you, Greta, to come right to us at the camp
if you need a place to go. I don’t quite understand what the man told
me but it is clear that things are strange.”

“Yes, they are. Ask Molly and Jean and Nan to tell you what they know.
And after I help Mother through this, I’ll be glad to come. I want to
find a place to work and the girls thought they could help me.”

“We all can, Greta. Don’t worry.”

It was not long before Greta had been driven away. She had locked the
door and taken a bundle of clothing with her. Cheerful waves from the
girls saw her off and Jean told her not to forget to come to the camp
as soon as she could.

There was another long tramp back to camp, for there was no boat to
take them over, but Grace invited the boys to stay for as big a meal as
they could get up on short notice. “Open some cans of beans, Grace,”
suggested Jimmy, “and heat ’em up.”

“Beans it shall be,” laughed Grace, “but we’ll have some other things,
too. Think it up, girls, on the way.”

Camp, however, afforded a pleasant surprise. There stood Mr. Standish
and Mr. Lockhart in front of the house, drawn there by the sounds of
arrival, and while Nan and Fran rushed “madly on,” as Jean said, Mr.
Standish came from the house. “Oh, there you are!” she exclaimed in
relief. “We just got here and while we saw that the cottage is all
right, we were worried to death for fear something had happened to you.
Your father and Mr. Lockhart were just starting to the boys’ camp to
see if they were all right.”

“Here are Jimmy and Billy and Dan to tell you all about the time
they had,” said Nan, hugging her mother. “We weren’t very scared,
Mother,--‘_sans peur_,’ you know, but we have a lot to tell you about
Greta Klein, a girl that lives near here.”

“Got a big description of the storm for the paper, Dad,” Jimmy informed
Mr. Standish.

“All right. Write it up for me. I heard about the storm up here and we
had the edge of it at home. Wires were down, so I thought we’d better
drive up. Such roads. We came over the shaky bridge and may have to
swim back.”

“In that case, I’ll stay with the girls,” suggested Mrs. Standish,
laughing. “It was an awful ride, but I was thinking of you and the
girls and could not get here fast enough, Jimmy. Where are the rest of
the boys?”

“Back at camp, I suppose. We came up here to see if the girls had
escaped.”

Further explanations followed. Mrs. Lockhart was found inside, where
she had been setting forth fruit and baked things of all sorts,
gathered up hastily when they decided to come. Part of it was saved for
the Wizards who were at their camp, but the rest, with what the girls
had, made a great dinner that was eaten merrily, though Mr. Standish
offered a fervent grace of gratitude at its beginning.

Jean and Molly gave a partial account of the mystery about Greta. “She
isn’t their child at all,” said Jean. “It’s dreadfully sad, of course,
but not so bad for Greta as if they were her parents and had been good
to her. Greta is a fine girl all right. She’s going to do everything
she can for them, I know.”

“Perhaps Mother could train her to help us and she could go to
school,” said Leigh. “I’m glad that my father and mother are away, not
to be worried about the storm.”

“Me, too,” said Jean, “but the folks will be back next week, I think.”

“We shall take good word to every one at home,” said Mrs. Standish,
“and if we can help that poor child get a start, we will. _There_ is
something for the S. P.’s to do.”




CHAPTER XVII

THE MYSTERIES DISCLOSED


That Jean Gordon would have any personal interest in the mystery
connected with Greta was the last thing she would have guessed until
Greta came back two weeks later and appeared at the door of “Sans
Souci,” as the name over the cottage door now announced.

Gently Greta knocked. Hesitantly she came in, when several girls, who
were doing the morning work after what was a late breakfast, called a
happy, “Come in Greta! Glad you’re back.” Molly ran up and took from
Greta’s hand a suitbox which she was carrying, probably her substitute
for a grip, Molly thought. Impulsive Jean did more, running up and
throwing her arms around Greta. “Why, you look like a twin sister to
the S. P.’s now,” she exclaimed. “Who fixed your hair that pretty way?
My, I wish I had curly hair!”

Greta laughed at this. “I fixed it, as much like yours as I could,” she
replied.

Grace, who had frowned at Jean’s too frank comments, now joined in the
general smiles and added her greeting. “Of course you have come to stay
a while with us, Greta?”

“Just a few days, Miss French, if you haven’t already found some place
for me to start working.”

“There will be no hurry, Greta. You need a little vacation. The boys
say that some one else is moving into your house.”

“And we have seen from the lake that the house is being repaired,” Nan
added.

It took some time for all the explanations. The Klein place had
been taken over by the man who had bought the rest of the farm land
originally attached to the few acres left. It was rented now. Mrs.
Klein and the two children were starting for Idaho, where a sister
lived. “I am free,” said Greta, “though it was a hard way for it to
happen.”

To Molly and Jean alone Greta told the details of her mother’s
revelations. “She was hysterical, as I was told, but by the time I got
there she was glad to have me take care of the children. I think that
she told them I wasn’t her child so that I would have no share in the
little bit of property. She was that way. She did _not_ realize that
all I wanted was to get away!

“Of course, she did not say a word about how her Greta died and I
didn’t tell her what Molly heard. There was no use in making her feel
worse than she did. She said that the night Greta died there was a
dreadful lake storm and more than one boat went down on Lake Michigan.
Jacob Klein felt so terrible about losing Greta that he walked and
walked and walked through the woods and clear across to Lake Michigan
before he knew it. I suppose he did, for it’s only thirty miles or so,
and he may have had the horse or a boat at that. He never told her the
truth about anything. He wanted to get away, and he could have taken
one of the boats and gone out by the river.”

“I think that it’s farther than you think, Greta,” said Molly. “Were
you ever there?”

“No. I wasn’t anywhere! But however that was, he found me out in Lake
Michigan, lashed to something and unconscious. Isn’t it queer that none
of my dreams or flashes of remembering had a boat in them? But I was
afraid of the water at first, till Jacob Klein made me fish and told me
to learn to swim. I found that I did already know how to swim, when I
made up my mind to go into the water.

“We must have come part way through the woods, for I partly remember
being made to walk and it seemed dark, though it must have been just
before daylight, from what Mother said. I shall call her Mother till I
get away from here, Jean.

“Then Jacob told his wife that they would take me in the place of Greta
and that no one would know the difference, even if I did not look like
Greta, for scarcely any one ever came by; and if I didn’t go to school
and they kept me at home to work, nobody would know.

“I think that Mother expected me to ask some questions there, for she
hurried along and made up a lot of things that couldn’t be so, only
that I was sick and they had a doctor come from Milwaukee, instead of
one from the town. Jacob must have been good and scared to do that; but
even then I don’t see how it was managed. If they had had any friends
it couldn’t have been. But it was no wonder people kept away!

“She said that I might be able to find out who my folks were, but she
didn’t know and Jacob tore up the paper that had the names of the
boats lost in the storm. She made over my clothes for the children and
I could wear Greta’s then, but there were some coral beads that she
found inside of my clothes. The string must have broken, she said,
but a few beads were down my neck, and there was a handkerchief in
my coat pocket that she kept. She told me where to find it and I went
right back home to get it. There is E. G. in indelible ink on the
handkerchief. It is a man’s handkerchief, though.”

“G stands for Gordon,” said Jean, who had been looking sober ever since
the story of Greta’s being found in Lake Michigan had been mentioned.
“I’m going to see if my father can not find out something for you,
Greta. It surely will not be hard to find out what boats went down in
that storm. If you were lashed to something it would mean that you were
in some wreck, you see.”

“I wish you had lost a sister, Jean,” smiled Greta, “but I do hope
that there will be somebody. Still a whole family could be lost on a
pleasure boat, you know, and if I can work and learn something along
as I can, I shall be happy. Can’t you learn without going to school,
Molly?”

“Of course you can, Greta. Oh, we ought to give you a new name!”

“An S. P. name,” laughed Jean. “Say, Greta, would you mind? Wouldn’t it
be fun to make up a name for you?”

“I’m sure I don’t mind.”

“Sally, Stella, Serena, Sophia, Sophy, Sophronia, Sara, Sidney,” began
Jean. “Oh, for a dictionary! We forgot to bring one out.”

“Think up a good one, Jean,” said Molly. “It’s funny that she does look
a little like you with her hair parted on the side, the way you have
yours now.”

“But I’ll never have those natural curls, Molly. It isn’t fair!”

“I’ll give you my hair any time you want it,” asserted Greta, and
although she smiled as she said this, the girls knew that she would
gladly exchange any of her advantages for Jean’s.

“I have it,” said Jean, suddenly, “Sybil, of course. She will be our
S. P. sibyl. It was stupendous stupidity in me not to think of that at
once.” Nan and Phoebe, who had just joined the group of three, agreed
at once with the fact of Jean’s stupidity and Jean pretended to be
deeply offended. But they were interested at once when Jean said that
this sibyl would find her own fates instead of telling other people
theirs.

The story of Greta’s substitution for the real Greta was soon told
to them all, disagreeable facts like those Molly had overheard all
omitted. “He probably worked over me when he found me half drowned in
Lake Michigan, girls,” said Greta, anxious to do justice to poor Jacob
Klein. “So I do owe my life to him, and it was probably the liquor that
made him--the way he was.”

Greta was a happy girl to sleep on an extra cot kept for guests and to
have her sharing in the gay doings taken as a matter of course. She
so insisted upon doing more than her share of little tasks that Jean
dubbed her the “Relief Corps” and told Grace that she might just as
well let Greta help whoever had charge of meals for the week. But they
began to call her Sybil until she said that she knew that magic had
been worked and that she was a different person altogether. “Well,”
said Nan, “since you are really not Greta at all, Sybil is as much your
name as that. You are probably a sort of nice pixy. And that makes me
think, Jean, the boys are now calling us the Sibyl Pixies!”

With the rest Sybil went to a great picnic celebration gotten up by the
boys, and Billy asked Jean what the girls had done to her to make her
look so different.

“We have not done anything, Billy, except to make her have happy times.
It’s that she has some respectable clothes now and doesn’t have to kill
herself working. The village women must have shamed Mrs. Klein into
getting her a decent dress for the funeral and the neat skirt and
middy and sweater that she has for every day is as good as anything
we are wearing out here. She told me that she borrowed the money for
those, but that they didn’t cost much in the little town.”

“Poor kid! Isn’t it awful what some are up against?”

“Yes; and I never thought about it before. I’m always going to think
more about other girls and not take everything for granted after this.
By the way, Billy, I’ve a lot to tell you some time.”

“Why not now?”

“Because we have to play games and things. Wait till we get home. I
have something on hand now that is very exciting. Could you keep a
secret?” Jean’s eyes were dancing and the dimple was in evidence.

“Try me.”

“I haven’t said a word to Molly or Nan or any of the girls, for fear
Sybil might get a hint and then have her heart broken.”

“What on earth do you mean?”

“Right away, Billy, as soon as Sybil said that Jacob Klein took her out
of Lake Michigan, I thought of that awful summer when my uncle’s whole
family were in a dreadful storm and wreck. They were going to visit us
and they never came at all. Don’t you remember about it? Mr. Standish
had a piece in his paper about it. Uncle Everett and Aunt Fanny were
saved and the two little twin boys, but a girl about my age, mind you,
Billy, and a baby, were just swallowed up some way, though they found
the little baby. Wouldn’t it be strange if Sybil were Uncle Everett’s
child? If she is, her name is Ann Gordon.”

“Say! But things don’t happen that way, Jean.”

“_Why_ don’t they? She has to be somebody, doesn’t she? And maybe I was
sent up here to find my cousin. I wrote a letter to Daddy right away,
all about it and when it happened, as nearly as Sybil could tell from
what Mrs. Klein said. I’ll let you know when I hear. Perhaps,” Jean
added impressively, “everybody will know very soon, if it turns out
that way!”

But Jean herself was surprised when, before she thought her uncle could
possibly have heard from her father, out came the Gordon car with a
lady and gentleman whom she had never seen, her uncle and his wife.
Sybil was not there, but Jean was, almost afraid that she had done
something she should not when she finally realized who had come. “Oh,
perhaps I’ve made a big mistake,” she cried, “and then you will be so
terribly disappointed!”

“Jean,” said the quiet gentleman who was Uncle Everett, “for four
years I have gone to every place where I heard of a child’s having
been found and adopted. You would be surprised to know that there have
been several children saved from wrecks on the big lake. This is only
another chance, though, more likely, for we were not so far from that
shore, but there was no report of anything but wreckage found there.
Your father telegraphed. Fanny wanted to come with me, to see if she
knew the beads you mentioned, and here we are.”

There was a little time of waiting before Sybil, the unknown, came in
from the woods with the other girls, all laughing and happy. Never did
she look more like Jean than when with eyes alight, she handed Jean a
branch which held a little humming-bird’s nest, like a lichen-covered
cup. “It was broken off by the storm, Jean,” she said; and then she saw
that they had company. “Oh, excuse me,” she said, stepping back.

But “Greta Klein” had not changed so much in four years that her own
mother did not know her. “Ann,--Ann-girl,” said Mrs. Everett Gordon,
rising at once from her chair and walking across the big room as if
there were no one there but herself and the girl who was staring at her
with startled eyes. “Oh, what have they done to my little girl all this
while! Don’t you remember, Ann?”

One by one the girls began to slip out of the room. It was very
confusing to the girl who had been Greta Klein as she thought. Even
Jean deserted her, and here were a gentle lady and a kind man, who held
her close by turns and scarcely said more than her new name, Ann, Ann
and Ann again. Best of all she knew them for her own. “Oh, yes, it’s
you, Mother! I know! Please take me home, Father!”

It was not necessary to look for the identifying beads and
handkerchief. Ann had changed very much, her mother said, in height
and expression, but the face could not be mistaken. Nothing but some
disfigurement could have made her hard to recognize at once. Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon could scarcely bear to have her out of their sight. Jean
protested against her being taken away at once, but Ann drew Jean’s arm
within her own as she said, “Suppose you had just found your father and
mother again, Jean, wouldn’t you want to see home with your own eyes?
I’ll never forget what you girls have done for me and my father says
I may come back; but I have two little brothers, Jean. Think of it! I
will write you all about it.”

With this Jean was satisfied. In a whirl of cheery goodbyes the Gordon
car took them all back to town and the train. “My,” said Jean, “doesn’t
it seem lonesome without Sybil?”

“Yes,” Grace answered, “yet she was here only two weeks. Do you
realize, girls, that the time I have to spend here is getting short?”

The vacation was flying, as Grace said, but when Grace felt that
she must go back, there were several tired mothers that thought a
short vacation would do them considerable good. They were welcomed
as chaperons by the S. P.’s and not allowed to cook or lift anything
but an admonishing finger. By this time, moreover, the S. P.’s could
“really cook,” as Jean put it. The advent of the mothers, one by one,
prolonged the camping until within a few weeks before school began;
then the beloved cottage was dismantled and the caravan of campers
returned. The boys had gone first, but some of them came back to help
the girls pack up.

Billy persuaded Jean to ride on the truck which Jimmy drove, with
Grace beside him. He fixed a safe perch and sat beside her to hear the
latest, he said.

“Well, Billy, the latest is that we are really the Social Progress
Club, announcing our name to everybody, and that we think the Sibyl
Pixies a clever idea of you boys. The only thing secret will be our
initiations; so that that mystery is over. But the great mystery of
the S. P.’s was the one we didn’t expect at all, the one that made Ann
Gordon out of Greta Klein! Sure enough, I _did_ go up there to find a
cousin. Suppose we hadn’t gone camping. Suppose we hadn’t had a S. P.
Club!”

“You would have gone East with your father and mother, and Leigh would
have gone somewhere with hers, and Molly,--well, you would have been
scattered.”

“And oh, Billy, I’ve something to confess to you. I’ve just dreaded
doing it, but I have to, for the sake of my little conscience!” Then
Jean started in to tell Billy all the details about how she started the
S. P.’s. Fortunately, Billy did not take it as seriously as she feared,
though she did not spare herself. He doubled over with mirth when she
told him how she saw the S. P. on a sign as they passed.

“You can tell the other boys if you want to. I deserve it. There was a
real club, though, by the time they heard of it. But I made you think
that _there had been one_. It’s taken me a long time to bring myself
to telling you, but I had to be straight with myself, anyway. Whatever
happens, I’m going to stick to the straight up and down truth forever!”

Billy was a little embarrassed by Jean’s earnestness, but as Molly had
once said, he was both level-headed and fair.

“So far as I’m concerned, it’s all right, Jean. You’ve fixed it up
with your little conscience, so forget it. I don’t blame you, for I
suppose I was blowing about our pin that I was showing you. I had to
show somebody or ‘bust,’ I reckon. Jimmy’s taken a lot of that out of
me this summer. Let’s draw a long breath and start in, Wizards and S.
P.’s, to raise money for the new library. You’re great on thinking
things up, Jean. Get up some good schemes and I’ll back you.”

“Thanks, Billy. It’s a great relief that you don’t think that so
terrible. And speaking of schemes, Uncle Everett says that he will
give a contribution to the S. P.’s for any cause they like. My cousin
Ann writes to me, you know. They are not rich, but so happy. I’m to go
there on my Christmas vacation and Ann is going to be an S. P. So are a
lot of other girls if they will join us.”

But Billy was laughing over a thought of his own. “Think of all the
names we boys made up for you, and all the time you were trying to fit
something to S. P. and rousing our curiosity!”

“I’m sorry about that, Billy, but the S. P. mysteries are all over,
though it is almost a pity. And our greatest find was Greta-Sybil-Ann.
I’m not so sorry, after all that I started the S. P.’s. Even if Ann
might have found her parents in her own way, she would never have known
the ‘why,’ if it hadn’t been for Molly, and we hurried up the happy
ending, or beginning, just by being on hand. My! You never can tell
what’s going to happen when you start _anything_!”


THE END




FICTION FOR GIRLS

  Oversized Editions

         *
        * *

    MYSTERY
    ADVENTURE
    EXPLORATION

        * *
         *

  THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
  AKRON, OHIO




  THE S. P. MYSTERY
  By Harriet Pyne Grove

  Rewarded for good work in school, the seven girls of
  the S. P. club are given a cottage on a little lake
  where they are to spend the summer. Greta, a poor
  German girl who lives near by, arouses their sympathy,
  and they try to help her. A storm damages Greta’s
  home, and her father dies in a drunken fight. Then her
  mother acknowledges Greta is not really her child, and
  the girl dimly recalls her childhood. One of the girls
  writes her father about Greta, and she is identified as
  the lost child of his own brother.




Transcriber’s Note:

The Table of Contents has been added by the transcriber. Hyphenation
has been retained as published in the original publication. Punctuation
has been standardised. Other changes have been made as follows:

  Page 17
    we haven’t such a scarey _changed to_
    we haven’t such a scary

  Page 43
    we could be an oudoor club _changed to_
    we could be an outdoor club

  Page 48
    lonesome she was,” said Phobe _changed to_
    lonesome she was,” said Phoebe

  Page 59
    “There!” she said presenly _changed to_
    “There!” she said presently

  Page 69
    in focusing it for her eyes _changed to_
    in focussing it for her eyes

  Page 80
    copy of Hooker’s Natural History _changed to_
    copy of Hooker’s _Natural History_

  Page 107
    preparations for the Attic Pary _changed to_
    preparations for the Attic Party

  Page 121
    keep it under out hats _changed to_
    keep it under our hats

  Page 128
    first bulding of the original immigrant _changed to_
    first building of the original immigrant

  Page 138
    Greta may her way to the cottage _changed to_
    Greta made her way to the cottage

  Page 226
    came the log-drawn _changed to_
    came the long-drawn





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The S. P. Mystery, by Harriet Pyne Grove

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE S. P. MYSTERY ***

***** This file should be named 54971-0.txt or 54971-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/4/9/7/54971/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

